---
title: Enchanted Dominion
order: 1
---


##         TREASURES ##

*  Potion
*  Pulsing Crystal
*  Blizzard
*  Zero Gravity
*  Potion
*  Ether
*  Ether
*  Enchanted Dominion Map
*  Sleep
*  Attack Recipe

##         STICKER COLLECTION ##

*  Balloon Sticker
*  Huey Sticker
*  Flying Balloon Sticker

##         UNVERSED ##

* Archraven
* Bruiser
* Flood
* Prize Pod
* Red Hot Chili
* Scrapper
* Thornbite
* Wheel Master

## Waking the Sleeping Beauty ##

After the scene you are locked in battle against a swarm of Unversed. In order
to progress you must defeat them all. The only things you need to worry about
are the Bruisers and their shockwave attack. If you get low on health simply use
a D-Link to heal and finish the fight. Afterwards search the area for two chests
containing a [POTION] and [PULSING CRYSTAL]. Make your way to the Forest
Clearing and open the chest for [BLIZZARD] then grab the [BALLOON STICKER]
nearby, save if necessary.

Continue to the Bridge where another scene ensues. Make sure to equip the
Blizzard Command you just acquired and press on towards more Unversed. Defeat
them and continue to the Audience Chamber. There are three [CHESTS] in this room
containing [ZERO GRAVITY], [POTION], and an [ETHER]. The [HUEY STICKER] in the
middle of the room cannot be obtained yet. Be sure to equip the Zero Gravity as
soon as you get it so that it is gaining CP. After the Unversed are defeated go
up the steps in to the Hallway. Loot the chest up the stairs for an [ETHER] and
continue through down the hall to Aurora's Chamber, examine the door to enter
and start a cutscene.


|                     PRIZES                    |
|-----------------------------------------------|
| DIMENSION LINK | Maleficent                   |


Open the chest for the [ENCHANTED DOMINION MAP] and check the Command Shop,
purchasing what you need. Poison is a decent pick up since early stage bosses
can take poison damage. Head to the Tower Room through the fireplace and grab
the [ATTACK RECIPE] and [SLEEP] from the chests and the [FLYING BALLOON
STICKER] sitting in the open. As you make your way back to the Audience Chamber
you will encounter the first real boss of Terra's Story.
```
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| BOSS: Wheel Master                                                          |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Health Points        | 400 (Body)                                           |
|                      | 250 (Arms)                                           |
| Strength             | 7                                                    |
| Defense              | 3                                                    |
| Status Resistance    | Immune to all but Ignite and Poison (Body)           |
|                      | Immune to all (Arms)                                 |
| Elemental Weaknesses | Physical x 1.0                                       |
|                      | Fire     x 1.5                                       |
|                      | Blizzard x 1.0                                       |
|                      | Thunder  x 1.0                                       |
|                      | Dark     x 1.0                                       |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|  The Wheel Master is limited on his attacks but they can be devastating if  |
| you aren't watching out for them. Time the vertical leaps and you can get   |
| off a few hits as it lands by jumping and swinging. The Wheel Master will   |
| occasionally whiz around the area, simply lock on and block the attack to   |
| leave it open for a few attacks. Strike Raid and Shotlock are great for long|
| range attacking when the Wheel Master jumps far away. If your health begins |
| to dwindle use a D-Link, preferably Aqua, to heal yourself. Aqua's D-Link   |
| has the Cure command for further back up.                                   |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                   PRIZES                                    |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Power Up      | Deck Capacity +1                                            |
| Command Style | Diamond Dust                                                |
| Keyblade      | Fairy Stars                                                 |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
```
After the cutscene you are returned to the World Map. Three new areas open up
when you complete the Enchanted Dominion. The Mirage Arena has side missions and
co-operative play providing a great way to gain experience early in the game. It
is recommended that you play the Keyblade Board on the Command Board mini-game
in order to obtain the Shotlock, Ragnarok. It is much stronger than Terra's
default Shotlock. Ragnarok is in the top left corner of the left side blocks.
Return to the Land of Departure and find four chests containing [HI-POTION],
[PULSING CRYSTAL], [SOOTHING CRYSTAL], and [STOP] then head to the Castle of
Dreams.

## Unversed Mission - Flaming Box ##

Location: Waterside
Reward: Firaga
1 Star: 0-14
2 Star: 15-29
3 Star: 30+

New to the Final Mix are Unversed Missions. These appear once you've cleared
a world. Head to the Waterside, the first area Terra lands in to find the mark
of the Unversed. Start the challenge where a Flaming Box launches fireballs into
the sky. You must break them before they hit the ground. This is best done with
simple Keyblade strikes on single targets and Magnet/Zero Gravity on larger
groups. The longer you go the more fireballs will get launched simultaneously.



