---
title: Acquiring the Charge Beam
order: 3
---



Alright! We're gonna get the Charge Beam! Head to the far end of the Main
Plaza, and you'll find that you can climb up. Do that, and proceed to walk over
the half-pipe using a bridge made of vines and stones. (neat.) Some War Wasps
are up here, and will assault you, so take them out. In case you didn't know, a
Missile blast will get rid of a Hive, that way they won't come out again. I'd
advise you save your Missiles though, especially if you try Hard Mode. (Hard
mode will be unlocked after you beat the game.) There should be a door here, so
enter it. You'll come across another twisting tunnel, with two more swarms of
Scarabs. Get the first swarm, then use the Morph Ball to squeeze through the
vines. Just stay in Morph Ball mode and avoid the second swarm, because there
are some more vines you have to squeeze through. Proceed through the door into
the Ruined Fountain. Above the fountain is a Chozo Lore. Scan it, of course.
There are some more Plazmites here, but they provide light in this room, so
don't kill them. (Super Metroid, anyone?)

There are two other doors here. One on the other side of this room, and one on
your left. Let's take the one on the left. It's not very simple, though. The
platform to the door is too far for you to jump, and there is poisonous water
down below. What to do? The solution is, jumping across platforms working your
way around the room, to the door.  In the Arboretum Access, you'll see some
Shriek Bats. Scan one before they make a suicidal dive towards you. Don't worry
if you didn't scan them in time, though, you'll encounter more. Enter the door
at the end of the Access and you will come to the Arboretum. The Arboretum is a
tall room, with toxic water surrounding a growing tree. You'll have to get
through the door behind the tree.

To your left are platforms which will get you there. There's also a Reaper Vine
guarding each platform that's against a wall. Scan one, then shoot its eye to
make it retract. Climb across the platforms and the bridge to get to the other
side, and head through the door. Your auto-tracking device will also detect a
Save Station, which is beside the next room, the Gathering Hall. Head to the
Save Station to save. When you exit, you'll be attacked by Shriekbats, scan
them if you didn't get the chance, but if you've already scanned them, then
pummel 'em with your Beam. The door right in front of you is blocked by Blast
Caps, and we need to go through that door! Get rid of those unsightly
mushrooms, then head through the door to come to the Watery Hall Access, where
some Shriekbats will greet you.

After you dispose of them, shoot a Missile at the cracked wall to your left at
the bottom of the room to uncover a MISSILE EXPANSION. Proceed through the
Access to the Watery Hall. You'll see some platforms leading up, but ignore
them. Instead, hop on the island to your left, after you get rid of the Blast
Caps, of course. Once on the island, turn around and scan a runic symbol around
there. This is one of four. You have to scan all four runic symbols in this
hall to get access to the Charge Beam. After you scan it, jump across the
islands until you get to another Blast Cap growing area. Get rid of them all,
then scan the runic symbol that they were hiding. Keep going, and you'll see
another runic symbol at a dead end. Now, we need one more.

So, let's go back to those platforms and climb up them. At the end of the high
pathway, you'll come to the door that needs unlocking. The last runic symbol is
beside it. After you scan the last one, scan the door and it will open. Scan
the Chozo Lore, then grab the CHARGE BEAM. (Whew! That's a lot of scanning!)
After you grab the Charge Beam, the walls will come alive with Eyons! Now that
you have the Charge Beam, you can destroy them. (Yay) After you destroy them
all, return to the Gathering Hall and save at the Save Station.
