---
title: Catching the Varia Suit
order: 5
---



Alright. This is probably going to be a short subsection...but anyway.. Head
into the Arboretum. Now, we have to do the same task that we did in the Watery
Hall: find and scan all four runic symbols. First, get to that bridge that lead
to the door that lead to the Gathering Hall. (whew) While on the bridge, face
the tree, and turn on your Scan Visor. You should see the first runic symbol.
After you scan that, drop down to the platform on your right, turn around
facing the bridge, and look down. You should see red Tangle Weeds. Shoot at
them to uncover another runic symbol.

Now it's time to climb up. Just climb up the side of the room from the bridge,
getting to a Morph Ball tunnel and some War Wasps from the tree. Go through
this tunnel, without falling, and bombing the blocks, to get to another runic
symbol. The last one is at the top. Continuing upwards, you'll find some more
red Tangle Weeds. (They're real name is Venom Weeds.) Scan them, then shoot at
them so as to Morph Ball through the tunnel without getting damaged.

You couldn't scan the first batch of Venom Weeds because all it says is that
they are hiding something. Alright, keep climbing and you should arrive at the
door that you need to unlock. Right behind you once you face the door is the
last runic symbol. This one should open the door, revealing a blocked Morph
Ball hole. Bomb it, then continue through the hallways filled with Venom Weeds
and Reaper Vines to come to the Sunchamber. A cutscene will come up, showing a
mutated plant called Flaaghra.

---------------------
**BOSS: Flaaghra**

This is the main boss of the Chozo Ruins. Scan it first. You can also scan one
of Flaaghra's roots. Look around for it in Scan Visor if you don't know what to
look for. (Hint: It's blocking a tunnel at ground level.) Its attacks are
claw-swiping, toxic energy balls, and creating a small toxic garden, which
you'll have to stay away from, until the garden disappears. Now, for the
strategy. You can't beat him with your Beam or Missiles. Well, how to defeat
him, you say? Look around, and you should see a sunlight contraption. Behind
each has a red target. Shoot the red target multiple times to disable it.
(Lock-on helps really well.)

Once you disable it, Flaaghra will collapse and its roots will retract. Here's
where you damage this boss. Morph Ball through the opening that the roots were
in, and place a Bomb at the Slot in the end. You'll seem to have defeated him,
but two sunlights will activate, reviving Flaaghra. Try the same proccess, but
you'll notice that as soon as you deactivate a sunlight, Flaaghra will activate
it again. What to do, now? Well, if you notice, when you shoot Flaaghra, he'll
flash yellow. Keep doing this, and you'll stun him. Use this opportunity to
deactivate the sunlights. Proceed through this process, stunning him and
deactivating sunlights, until he's finally dead.
---------------------

You'll be pointed to a coin with an S on it. Collect it to gain the VARIA SUIT!
Now that you have the Varia Suit, we can explore Magmoor Caverns, so let's do
that. First, go through the door here. The one you originally entered is filled
with vines, meaning you can't enter. Go through the tunnel here until you come
to a blockage made of blocks. Break them, and you'll encounter a yellow Energy
pick-up. It's an Ultra Energy and it restores a full tank of Energy. (100
units) Very useful. Scan it before you collect it. Keep going and you'll
encounter a familiar enemy, called a Pulse Bombu. Scan it. Now, since you don't
have the appropriate weapon to kill this thing, just move on. You'll encounter
a Spider Ball Track on the ground, leading downward. Since you don't have it
yet, just fall. For some reason, you don't take damage for falling from high
distances. The next room is that same Magmoor transport you encountered. Scan
the conduit next to it to activate it, then use the elevator to descend into
the molten depths of the planet.....
