---
title: Getting the Missile Launcher
order: 1
---

Yes, the first thing you obtain is the Missile Launcher. First, jump off then
scan your ship, then head to the door to the ship's right. You'll come to a
small sandy room, and two Beetles will pop out. Scan one, then destroy them.
(What? Your only weapon right now is the Power Beam..) Head left once you
defeat them to head into the exotic Tallon Canyon. To your left is a Sap Sac,
scan it to add it to your Creatures list. In front of you is a bunch of
platforms surrounding a pool of water, including a waterfall. Don't go up the
platforms yet because they lead to a door that you can't open yet. Instead,
head to the right of the platforms to get through a door, passing a half-pipe.
You'll also encounter a few Beetles, so kill them. In the next hallway, scan
one of the Zoomers crawling up and down the walls, then kill both of them.
Ignore the Sap Sacs, as they blow up of you touch them/shoot them. Past the
next door is an elevator to the Chozo Ruins. Scan the conduit next to it to
activate the elevator......use it!

Now, once you're in Chozo Ruins, head forward, through the hallway, into a
room, with two Beetles popping out of the ground. As you kill them, your
auto-tracking device will activate, telling you that there's some seismic
activity occuring in the Hive Totem, which is where you'll get the Missile
Launcher. Before you enter the next door, scan the Chozo Lore above it. (Chozo
Lore looks like a puddle of wavy water on the walls.) Now, enter the door to
enter the Main Plaza, and a cutscene will show up, showing you everything in
the Main Plaza....eerie music, huh? Anyway, once the cutscene is over, head
straight forward to come a large group of Beetles. Dispose of them, then past
the half-pipe, up the stairs, and head left to a door. Head through it to come
to a winding tunnel. Careful here, because a swarm of Scarabs will come
crawling through the walls, and will explode if you get too close to them.
First before you get the swarm, scan a Scarab, then proceed to clean them out
like an exterminator. Head through the hallway to come to the Eyon Tunnel. As
you can guess, it's filled with Eyons, which are eye-like creatures attached
to the walls. They shoot a laser from their pupils, so they're enemies. Scan
one, then head through the hallway, shooting the Eyeons to stun them. No, you
can't kill them until you get the Charge Beam.

Past the Eyeon Tunnel is the Ruined Nursery. In front and to the right of the
tree here is a Chozo Lore, scan it. Your auto-tracking device will also detect
a save point nearby, which is right next to the Ruined Nursery, but not on the
main path. Head forward through the room after you scanned the Chozo Lore, and
two Beetles will pop out. You know what to do. After that, climb the stairs to
your right to get to the second and top floor of this room. Some War Wasps will
come out of their nests on the other side of the room, scan one, and scan their
hive, then proceed to kill them. Now, overlooking the bottom floor, there is a
platform to your right, and a Morph Ball maze to your left. Ignore the Morph
Ball maze for now, and get on the platform to your right. You'll come to a door
around the bend, and you'll see the Save Point you were directed to. Save.

Alright. Now, head back into the Ruined Nursery and go through the door on the
top floor. Head through the hallway, past the open room, killing the swarm of
Scarabs, and you'll arrive at the Ruined Gallery. Some War Wasps will come out
of their hive, so kill them. Well, there's really not much to do here, now, so
jump across the platforms on your right and head through the door on the other
side. In the Totem Access, you'll see some Plazmites, which are similar to
fireflies. Scan one, then destroy 'em. Although they really aren't harmful,
they block the path here, and will cause slight damage to you if you touch
them. Anyway, in the same Access, you'll come to a small room with a platform
in the middle, and it contains a few boxes, and Tangle Weeds. Scan the Tangle
Weeds, then destroy the boxes for some Missile or Energy pick-ups. (If you need
them, that is.) Head throuh the rest of the Access to head toward the Hive
totem itself. This room is fairly large, has a big platform in the middle, and
a puddle of water full of toxins at your left side. (This room is tilted,
so...) Anyway, get on the platform, then proceed to cross the bridge to the
Missile Launcher.....wait...that's too easy....

A cutscene will occur, showing the room getting filled up with that poisonous
water, and a machine below the Missile Launcher will rise up, and connect with
the top one to create the Hive Totem. It will proceed to open, and will release
a swarm of War Wasps. You might notice these are different, so when you get the
chance, scan one. After you scan them, scan the machine. If you don't know
where to scan, try looking under the water towards the machine. After the
scanning is done, proceed to kill the Ram War Wasps. Once they're dead, the
machine will open up, shoot at it until it gets to “round 2.” Even more Ram War
Wasps will appear, kill them, and the machine will open up, shoot it to get to
round 3. Do the same thing as last time, and the machine will be beaten, and
will allow you access to the MISSILE LAUNCHER.

Now that you have the Missile Launcher, go ahead and scan the door, then blast
it with a Missile. Open the door with your Beam, and collect the ENERGY TANK.
inside. Proceed out of the Hive Totem and head to the Ruined Gallery. Now that
you have the Missile Launcher, we can do a couple of things here! First, head
to the bottom floor, and turn around to see some Blast Caps on a platform in
the middle of the poisonous water. Scan one, then blast those Blast Caps, then
get on the platform that they were on. In front of you is a cracked wall. Blast
it with a Missile to uncover a MISSILE EXPANSION! Now that you've got that,
head to the door with the Blast Shield on it, and blast it open with a Missile.
Proceed inside to a....Map room! No need to scan this, because you already did
it on the Space Frigate, remember? Of course, this place is really huge... @_@.
I think that's about it, so head to the Ruined Nursery, and save at the Save
Room. I'll end this subsection here. Let's look at what we've obtained in this
subsection.
