---
title: Getting the Morph Ball Bomb
order: 4
---

OK, we're gonna get the Morph Ball Bomb next. I will continue this section
until we get every Missile and/or Energy Tank that we can get, even after we
get the main item in this subsection. Alright, we're gonna have to do some
climbing in the Gathering Hall. From the Save Room door, there will be a
section of raised ground beside the Arboretum door. Use that to start climbing.
Get to the top, jumping platforms and blasting Blast Caps and Shriekbats, and
head through the door. After a hallway, you should come to the Energy Core.
Let's observe what's here, shall we? First, there's a big pool of poisonous
water in front of you, and a locked door on the other side. Scan the locked
door to add it to your Research Log Book. There's a hallway on either side of
you; the one on the right leads downward to a pool of poisonous water, and the
other leads to a Morph Ball hole. Observe the facts.

If you answered correctly, then the only way to go is to the hallway on your
left. About now, you should come to some red spheres which look like those
purple Energy pick-ups. These restore 20 units of Energy. Whenever you come
across one, scan it. Anyway, past the Morph Ball hole, will be another hole,
and past that is a door, which will lead you to the Burn Dome. A cutscene will
appear, showing an indestructible War Wasp Hive, and a machine will pop out.
Scan the machine. Basically, this Mechanoid Incinerator Drone shoots out two
jets of fire. After a short while, it will expose its weak-point: shoot at it
with your Beam and it will shoot a jet of fire at the Hive, awakening the most
powerful of all War Wasps, the Barbed War Wasps. Scan one. Now this is where
things get a little tougher. While focusing on the Drone, you have to keep an
eye out for the War Wasps. Whenever one comes out, you have to get it while
avoiding the Drone's flames. This can be very difficult, even I can't go
through it without taking quite a few hits. Basically, just kill the War Wasps
when you get the chance, and shoot at the weak spot once it shows itself until
the Hive gets destroyed by the flames, and when the machine explodes because it
overloads. Now, you have the MORPH BALL BOMB!

If you look closely, you'll see a blocked Morph Ball hole. Use a Bomb to break
through and to get a MISSILE EXPANSION at the end. Now, let's head back to the
Energy Core. Once you exit the Morph Ball hole in the Core, you'll notice a
Stone Toad to your left. Scan it, then get in Morph Ball mode and approach it.
It should suck you in. Before it spits you out, plant a Bomb inside of it to
blow it away, everything splattering everywhere....nah, it's not that graphic.
Anyway, behind it hides a generator with a Morph Ball Slot. Scan the Slot
first, then use a Bomb to pop yourself up to it. Use another Bomb to activate
the Generator, which will lower the water in the main room. Another Generator
and Morph Ball Slot will be uncovered. Also a timer will start. Use the itty
bitty tunnel here to get to the main room quickly. Head to that next Morph Ball
Slot to activate another Generator. This one will raise some platforms. Quickly
take them and go through the small tunnel to get to another Slot and generator.
Use the Slot, and the generator will raise another set of platforms, and will
unlock the door that I showed you when we first entered this room.

Head through the next tunnel to get to a Spider Ball track and a Morph Ball
hole. Head through the hole to get an ENERGY TANK. Head back to the Gathering
Hall Save Station to save. Now, head all the way back to the Ruined Nursery.
Remember the Morph Ball maze here? Well.... At the bottom floor of this room,
there's a low entry to the maze. Use a Bomb to pop yourself in there. Go
through it, and get rid of the block there to clear the path. Now, head out,
and enter the maze from the top floor of the room. Go through the maze, bombing
blocks, until you get to another MISSILE EXPANSION. Now head into the Ruined
Gallery. There's two holes near some Tangle Weeds on the bottom floor. Enter
either, and you'll get another MISSILE EXPANSION. Now, head into the room that
contained your first Energy Tank. (Past the Hive Totem.) There's a hole here.
Use the Morph Ball to get through. Head through the little maze with the
pistons to head into a Magmoor Caverns transport.

Don't take it yet. Instead, take the door on the right, towards the Vault. Once
you get to the Vault, find the Chozo Lore here and scan it, then look for three
Morph Ball Slots. The first two have weak locks on them. Blow them open and use
the Slots. The last one is a little high. You need to Double Bomb Jump to reach
it. Here's how: Plant a Bomb, and just before it explodes, plant another one.
When you pop up into the air, immediately set another Bomb. If successful, you
should pop up with the second one, and the third one in the air should pop you
up once more. This will allow you to reach the last Slot. Once you've activated
all the Slots, the vault will open, exposing a MISSILE EXPANSION. Continue
through, until you get to an ENERGY TANK, overlooking the far end of the Main
Plaza. Alright. That should be it. Let's end this subsection.
