---
title: CRAGGY CAVE (OPTIONAL)
order: 1
---




This part is optional but highly recommended. Go back to Galenholm and head
south across the bridge. Continue south, then go east past a poisonous swamp and
you should see a cave. This is Craggy Cave, formally called Rocky Mountain Cave.
Quick Save before you enter. Be careful as you do not want to get stuck in the
cave without MP or a Torch.



**Floor B1**



There are two levels to the cave. You start off in the upper level with Ghosts,
Prestidigitators, Scorpions and Lunaticks. Lunaticks are even easier than
Skeletons, so no worries.

Once you are in the cave, go east at the first intersection. east again at the
second one, then east again at the third one. Follow the path south, then west
until you hit water. Go to the northwest corner of the water to find a chest
with ~340G.

Walk south of the water and follow the path west. Head north at the
intersection, then east at the next one. You should see a hallway with pillars
going west. Follow it, then swing north to the stairs.



**Floor B2**



The second floor has tougher monsters, with Skeletons, Fightgeists (they can
cast Sizz), Drackymas (they can cast Heal and Sizz), Drohl Drones, and the
dreaded Legerdemen. Legerdemen can cast Sizz and Snooze. I have bad memories
about these monsters, who were called Warlocks in the NES version. Basically,
they can put you to sleep and cast Sizz over and over until you die. Thankfully,
it does not happen that often.

First start going east. Skip the first room to the north and go to the second
room which has a chest containing ~535G. The third room has a chest* containing
a TORCH. Follow the path east and south, then take the first path going west.
Continue west to the corner (ignoring the path south), north to the wall
(ignoring the path west), then head east and south to a room with a chest
containing an IRON SHIELD, which you should equip right away.

* If you want a Choker, approach the chest with the Torch inside while holding a
full inventory. If you already took the Torch, the chest will respawn upon
exiting the cave. Attempt to open it. If the item is a Torch, refuse to throw
something away, which will put the Torch back inside the chest. Repeat this over
and over again until you are offered a CHOKER. You must throw something away in
order to receive it. You can sell this cursed item for a hefty 1200G. Once you
take the Choker, the chest will no longer respawn.

Head west, skipping the south path you just came from to find another room with
a chest containing a WARRIOR'S RING, the second and final accessory. Continue
west and all the way south to a room with two chests. They contain a SEED OF
STRENGTH and a SEED OF MAGIC.

That's all the treasure you can get in this cave. Time to get out of here. From
where you are, go north and take the first path east. Follow this path south to
the wall, west to the wall and finally north to the stairs.



**Floor B1**



Follow the linear path past the pillars, then head south and west. Take the
first path leading south, then take the first path going east. You should be at
the water. Follow the path east and north until you hit a wall, then head west
until you hit a corner. Follow this wall clockwise until you reach the stairs.



