---
title: GRIND 3
order: 4
---




At this point I recommend doing another grinding session to earn 3000G, which
you will need for the Full Plate Armour. Forget about the Magic Armor... it's
really not worth it. Both armours have the exact same defense. The difference is
that Magic Armour heals 1 HP every four steps and reduces spell and fire damage
by about 25%. I recommend grinding on the hills just south of Rimuldar. Make
sure you stay on the northern part of the hills. Once you have your Full Plate
Armour, you can safely go further south, but do not go west of the bridge south
of Rimuldar yet.

You should be at least level 10 by now. At level 10 you learn Fizzle, which, if
successful, prevents monsters from casting spells at a cost of 2MP. I wouldn't
bother using it on the Legerdemen, since they can be beaten easily by this
point. Same goes for the Skeleton Scrappers, because you can do more damage to
them than their Heal spell can restore. Same goes for the Scarewolves because
when they can be two-shotted, a Fizzle cast is a wasted turn when you or the
monster could be attacking. I usually do not use Fizzle at all, save for one
particular monster later in the game.

Further south you run into new monsters. Scarewolves can cast Fizzle, Skeleton
Scrappers can cast Heal, and Gold Golems have high HP and can defend. Also, Gold
Golems drop 650G a pop. which will be coming in handy as you will soon need
24600G for a new sword and shield, or 14800G if you want to skip the sword.

At level 12 you learn the Evac spell, which instantly warps you out of dungeons
at a cost of 6MP. Now I recommend you cross the bridge to the south and grind on
the hills. You should come across a new monster. Chimaeras have good attack but
by now they should be outmatched.

At level 13 you learn the Zoom spell, which warps you to Tantegel Castle at a
cost of only 1 MP. This spell can save your life. It doesn't work in dungeons;
you have to Evac first. You can take a break from grinding at this point because
you are now powerful enough to get through the next dungeon. Use Zoom or a
Chimaera Wing to get back to Tantegel fast and save yourself time from all
the weak encounters.


```
 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
| RECOMMENDED LEVEL: 13                                                        |
|                                                                              |
| CURRENT EQUIPMENT                                                            |
| ---------------------------------------------------                          |
|                                                                              |
| Weapon: Steel Broadsword (Rimuldar)                                          |
| Armour: Full Plate Armour (Kol, Rimuldar)                                    |
| Shield: Iron Shield (Galenholm or Craggy Cave)                               |
| Accessory: Dragon Scale (most Item Shops)                                    |
| Accessory: Warrior's Ring (Craggy Cave)(optional)                            |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/
```




