---
title: A very 'Ice Beam
order: 2
---



Now let's head over to the Ruined Fountain. Here, we're gonna get a Missile
Expansion. Jump into the fountain, and Morph. When water spews out, you will be
shot up to a Spider Ball Track. Use it to reach the MISSILE EXPANSION. Now,
let's head over to the Watery Hall. Head all the way to the part of the room
that you got the Charge Beam. There should be something blocking a Morph Ball
hole. Bomb it, then head through to get to the Dynamo. A little to your right
should be some blockage. Shoot a Missile at it to uncover a MISSILE EXPANSION.
Now, look around here. You should find a Spider Ball track. Use that to grab
another MISSILE EXPANSION. Now, let's head to back to the Gathering Hall. Head
to the top entrance, and climb on on of those red things, then Space Jump to
the ledge above. Bomb the grating here to reveal yet another MISSILE EXPANSION.
Now, let's head to the Furnace.

Once there, take the Spider Ball Track. Now, you'll be crossing disappearing
bridges, so let's keep quick. Roll through across the bridge, and immediately
plant a Bomb when you reach the end, you should be popped up in the nick of
time. Cross the next disappearing bridge and go through the Morph Ball Tunnel
until you officially reach the Furnace. Once you enter, if you look, you'll see
an out-of-reach Spider Ball track with some Plated Parasites crawling on it.
Scan one. Also, once you enter, some Beetles will pop up and attack you. Now,
there's an Ice Beam door here, and we can't go through those yet, so let's find
another Morph Ball hole. The one we're looking for has a Chozo Lore above it.
Scan the Lore, then head in. After the LONG tunnel, you'll notice the music
will have changed to a mystical, and somewhat scary track. Better tread
lightly. You should end up in the Crossway, in which you'll see a path leading
to an Ice Beam Door on your right, a half-pipe right in front of you, a ledge
past the half-pipe, and a hallway on the ledge that leads to a Blast Shield
Door. Use the half-pipe to reach the ledge, and once on it, look to your left.

There should be three Chozo Lores for you to scan right there. Scan them all,
then turn on your Thermal Visor. We're looking for something that is generating
a lot of heat. If you think it's the right one, scan it. If it says that it is
made of Cordite, then blast it with a Super Missile. This should reveal
something to scan. Scan it, and a Spider Ball track and a Morph Ball Slot will
reveal themelves, high above the half-pipe. Now, if you haven't mastered the
art of catching air in half-pipes, you should learn how to do so. Basically,
charge up your Boost as you start heading downwards. When you touch the half-
pipe, and you start to ascend, release, and you should be able to gain height.
Do this to reach the Spider Ball track, and when you get below the Slot, plant
a Bomb while still attached to the track, and you should pop up into the Slot.
Use the slot, and another Spider Ball track and Slot will appear. Do the same
thing as last time, and you should activate a slow-moving piston. Use your
Morph Ball to squeeze into the tiny compartment, and the piston will act as a
little “elevator”.

Once at the top, roll through the tunnel to collect a MISSILE EXPANSION.
Alright, head towards that Wave Beam door. Head through the tunnels until you
come to the Hall of the Elders. Before you drop down, go through the Morph Ball
hole up here. This will lead to a Missile Reload Station. There's only like,
three of these in the game, and they can be used infinitely, like the Save
Station, so you can scan it either before or after you use it. Anyway, after
you've done your business, (reload, scan) head into the Hall of the Elders and
fall down to bottom level. The light in the room will fade to total darkness,
the music will change to some type of battle music, and a Chozo Ghost will
appear. These are a real pain in the butt, so scan it first. You'll notice that
this enemy can't be defeated by any elemental force, so you can't use your Wave
Beam, and, when you get them, Ice Beam and Plasma Beam.

You can only damage them with your Power Beam, Missiles, or Super Missiles.
Also, the ghost only appears for a little while to attack, then it disappears.
Just beat this ghost and the room will get back to normal, except for the blue
glow on the statue's hands. Now, you may be wondering, “Why are Chozo Ghosts
attacking me? The Chozo have raised Samus, but yet they're attacking
here....what gives?” Well, there's only one explanation. According to the Chozo
Ghost scan, it says that due to exposure to Phazon, the ghost's actions have
become erratic, thus, it doesn't have time to think who it's attacking. Another
part of the explanation is that they stay in holy areas and attack anybody who
enters. Yes, Phazon is so powerful that it will affect spirits....O_o

Anyway, there's a Chozo Lore behind the statue, so scan it. Now, about the
glowing on the statue's hands. If you Morph into a ball while on it's hands, it
will start to move.....and it will throw you onto a track, you'll hit a bump,
and go flying towards a Spider Ball Track. Follow it to a Slot, use it and
three color-coded Slots will appear. Now, head to those three slots by jumping
up platforms. Once you reach them, shoot at the purple Slot with your Wave
Beam, then place a Bomb inside. The track (not the Spider Ball track) will
change. Morph into the statue's hands again, and it will throw you to a track,
but this time, you'll be shot up to a tunnel high above. The track will change
back to normal, and the purple Slot will reset itself. Go through the tunnel to
a door. Before you use it, scan the conduit, and the force field behind you
will be gone, allowing access to the door by Space Jumping up from the path to
the color-coded Slots. Head through the door. Past the tunnel is the Reflecting
Pool. Now, when I first entered this room, I thought that someone was staring
right at me.......it turns out it's just a statue.

Darn darkness. Anyway, if you scan the statue, it'll say something to the
affect that the lock underwater is stable. Well, dive in and find the lock.
Once you do, Bomb it. This will drain all the water, and will reveal a half-
pipe. Use it to get to the top floor. You might want to get rid of the Stone
Toads here before you try it, though. Anyway, at the top, enter the
Antechamber, (check the map) and you'll get the Ice Beam! Now, you can switch
to the Ice Beam by pressing down on the C-stick! This beam can be used to
freeze enemies in place. (obviously) This beam can also open those white doors
you kept on seeing. Anyway, since you got this beam, head back to the Hall of
the Elders. Now, you will probably fight a couple of Chozo Ghosts once you re-
enter here. Just two Super Missiles should kill each ghost. Don't worry about
ammo here, as you've got that Missile Refill Station! Anyway, once they're
gone, climb back to the color-coded Slots, and shoot the white one with your
Ice Beam, and plant a Bomb in the slot. The track will change once again, so
Morph in the statue's hands, and he'll throw you to the track, and it'll drop
you off into a hidden part of the room, and it contains an ENERGY TANK! Anyway,
find a hole to get you back out, then head back to the Reflecting Pool and use
the Save Station there. Once you use it, Morph Ball through the tunnel next to
the Station to reach an elevator to Tallon Overworld East.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 8

Creatures: 2
Plated Parasite
Chozo Ghost

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 5
Cradle
Worm
Hatchling's Shell
Infestation
Hope

Research: 1
Missile Station

Total scans obtained: 91
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 21
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 8
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 13
Total percentage: 42%


