---
title: Defying “Gravity”
order: 3
---



Alright. Now we're in Tallon Overworld. Go through the tunnel, and soon you'll
come to some vines. Morph Ball through there, and quickly roll through the
Venom Weeds, and grab a MISSILE EXPANSION along the way. Keep going until you
get to a ledge overlooking the Frigate Crash Site. (Yep, the same Frigate you
went through in the beginning.) A couple of Flying Pirates will appear, so
freeze them with a charged Ice Beam shot, and once he's frozen, shoot a Missile
at him to break him to smithereens. Do that with the other one, then dive ALL
the way down to the pool of water, and safely landing on a bridge made of
vines. (Don't worry, if you miss the bridge, you can just jump up to it.)
Follow the right junction, and you'll emerge out of the water, into the shore.
Some Flying Pirates will spot you, but will mysteriously fly away.....if you
look closely at the box they were plundering, you'll see Phazon oozing out of
it....looks like they were taking some samples and left. Anyway, head into the
Landing Site and use your ship to restore all of your energy and supplies, and
to save your game. Now head all the way back to Phendrana Drifts. Most notably,
the elevator close to the Magmoor Workstation. Once there, if you look behind
you, you'll see a Spider Ball track.

Climb up it and open the white door at the top. Keep going until you get to the
Frozen Pike. (Notice the music changed....it's really cool...pardon the pun)
Anyway, once there, check your map. You should see three other purple doors.
Take the second one down. The next large room you should be at is the Frost
Cave, after some pathways filled with Ice Beetles and those old Scarabs. There
are two new enemies here. One is a Hunter Metroid, which is an adolescent
Metroid mutated with Phazon, and the other is a Glider, a floating creature,
capable of withstanding the energy of the Grapple Beam. A common “sport” that
these creatures are featured in sees which person can stay hanging with the
Grapple Beam for the longest time......well, that's what the scan says...
Anyway, you can't kill Gliders, so kill the Hunter Metroid. (You remember, in
the old games? Ice Beam and a Missile?) Once that Metroid is killed, look up at
the ceiling. You'll see some stalactites. Shoot Missiles at them in the
lock-on points, and they'll fall, allowing you to reach the Wave Beam door at
the other end.

Anyway, after a LONG Morph Ball tunnel, you'll finally reach Phendrana's Edge,
where you'll be greeted by two Flying Pirates. Remember, since you have the Ice
Beam, save your Missiles, you don't need to use Super Missiles anymore. Once
they're both gone, drop into the water. You might fall on an underwater enemy,
so don't jump if you do. Anyway, the underwater enemies down here are Jelzaps,
weird fish split into halves, linked only by electrical impulses. Their only
weak point is when they open up, shoot a charged Wave Beam at them when they
open, and their electrical impulses will fail, thus splitting the fish apart,
thus killing it. There are two of those down here. Once you've taken care of
them/avoided them, head into the door down here. Head through the Scatter
Bombu-filled tunnel, Morph Balling through the tight space at the end, to reach
the Hunter Cave. Shoot Missiles at the three stalactites on the ceiling. Two
will land in the water, creating island-like platforms, plus they'll crush the
two Jelzaps that are there.

Jump across the fallen stalactites, and reach the Wave Beam door at the end.
You should arrive at the Gravity Chamber after the next tunnel. Since it's very
hard to see in this mostly underwater room, turn on your Thermal Visor. Alas,
you'll see tentacles reaching from the bottom. These are Aqua Reapers. These
are similar to the Vine Reapers, just shoot at their tips to make them retract.
Use the Thermal Visor to get around this room, and to spot another coin, head
towards it once you see it. This is the GRAVITY SUIT!!! Now, you can move
freely underwater, as if you were on land, plus visor configurations allow you
to see better underwater. The only ability this suit lacks, is the ability to
stay in lava without taking damage. Ah well, at least you don't have to go
through under-lava rooms in this game.

Anyway, find your way out of the water, and head into the next door here.
You'll eventually head back into the Hunter Cave, where some Flying Pirates lie
in ambush. Kill them, then walk along the path up here to head to another new
door. Past the door is a series of underwater tunnels. Past the tunnels, you
should come to the Frozen Pike. As soon as you emerge out of the water, even
more Flying Pirates will attack. Take them out, then climb all the way to the
topmost door, and head back to the elevator. Use the elevator to head back to
Magmoor Caverns. Save at the Save Station behind you, then head all the way to
the Tallon Overworld elevator. From the Tallon Canyon, head back to the Frigate
Crash Site, and dive into the water. (I know how all this backtracking gets to
you, but please bear it, backtracking is exactly the thing that Metroid games
do.) Now, before you get to the other side, there's a MISSILE EXPANSION in an
alcove down here. Once you find it, start climbing rocks at the far end until
you come to a small tunnel. In it, is a Morph Ball tunnel. Once past that, you
should be at the other side.

Head to the door here, and break the blocks. You should be able to go through
now. Find your way to the next door, but its very hard to, so try moving around
in Morph Ball mode. This way, you can see better, since the the Morph Ball sets
off light. Anyway, once you got yourself to the next door, enter it to
officially be in the Space Frigate. Nice music, huh? Sort of a murky type of
track. Anyway, just drop down into the water here. Head through the tunnel down
here to resurface. Morph Ball through the wreckage when you get to it, and open
the door to come to two Turrets. Destroy them, then look for a power conduit.
(Remember, Thermal Visor, then Wave Beam the conduit) Once you've found it and
activated it, you should be able to open the next door. Head through the
tunnel, and you might come across some Tallon Crabs. Scan one of them before
they all disappear, because if they do, you'll probably have lost your only
chance to nab a scan. (I really haven't taken a second trip down to the Sunken
Frigate, so I'm not really sure if those Tallon Crabs re-appear. Why don't you
try it, after you scan them?)

NOTE: The Tallon Crabs do come back, every time you enter the Sunken Frigate.
So you can't miss this scan.  Thanks to norman starzycki for letting me know.

Anyway, if you're in these Crabs' way, you'll get hit, so, if you want to just
let the Crabs go to where they need to go, then you can do it, just be sure to
scan 'em first. Anyway, contrinue on either way. The next room should be the
Reactor Core. Remember this room? This is where you fought the Parasite Queen.
Nah, don't worry, Parasite Queens don't live underwater, so you can safely move
around here. If I'm not mistaken though, there should be a few Aqua Pirates in
this room. Scan one, then proceed to obliterate them. Now, turn on your Thermal
Visor, as we've got four power conduits to find and activate. Once they're all
activated, you can enter the next room. In this room, there's that same old
Save Point here, the first one you've encountered in the whole game. Go ahead
and use it. Now, you have to find two more power conduits in this room. (This
one's fairly easy, each of them is beside the door you need to open.)

Once you've got them, head into the next room, which is the Cargo Freight Lift
to Deck Gamma. Now, if you'll see in the freight, there's an ENERGY TANK
inside. Bust the blockage open with a Missile, then head in to collect it. Now,
since the freight doesn't work, (obviously, we're underwater) we'll have to
start climbing up using the debris, while finding three more power conduits to
proceed. The first one is right on the freight. The second one is on the wall
of this room if you look behind you while climbing. The third one is at the
top, so start climbing. Oh, and be careful of the Aqua Reapers. Once you get
close to the top, a Space Pirate will emerge out of a vent explosion, so he's
dead. He'll slowly rise to the surface.....just keep moving. Anyway, once
you've found all three conduits, you can head through the next door. Through
this access, you should come to another familiar room, the Biohazard
Containment. Beware as soon as you enter, as a Turret will activate.

There's a power conduit hidden in the machine to your right, so activate it.
Continue through, blasting those Turrets, until you get underwater. (Note:
there's a power conduit really close to the spot where you get underwater.)
There should be an Aqua Drone here, so scan it. Proceed to destroy it now.
There should be one more power conduit here, so activate it. This'll allow you
into the next room. BUT, before you do enter the next hallway, look for a
scannable door in one of the holding cells. If it says it's made of Cordite,
then blast it with a Super Missile to unveil a MISSILE EXPANSION. NOW, you can
go through the next hallway to the next room, the Biotech Research Area 1. A
few more Aqua Pirates should assault you. Stay on the platform you are on, and
get rid of them.

Now, once they're all gone, look to your left with Thermal Visor on to see a
power conduit. There are also two more power conduits. Once they are all
activated, you should be able to continue. Somewhere around here, depending on
how fast your are, your auto-tracking device should come up, detecting foreign
technology. (No, not the Frigate.) It'll also detect a transport to where that
technology is at, and that's where we are heading. (And the transport isn't
exactly in the Frigate, otherwise it would be plain weird.) Once you enter the
next tall room, an explosion will occur, and another dead Space Pirate will
slowly rise to the surface......ok, I had just about enough of that. Drop down,
and scan the Aqua Sacs down here, and enter through the next door. There should
be another Morph Ball tunnel here. Move along through it, and you'll come to a
maze.

Since this maze is underwater, you'll pop up MUCH higher with one Bomb. So, pop
up to the ledge above, then drop down on the other side. Now, if you noticed,
there's a shaft leading upwards. Let's go up that. First pop yourself with a
Bomb. Now, study the jump. Determine how high you will go before you start
descending. What you have to do now, is to plant a Bomb when you're a second
close to descending. If done correctly, you should pop up again. Keep Bomb
Jumping in this manner, until you reach the top, where an ENERGY TANK awaits.
Now, you can head to the other side of the maze, and continue to the Great Tree
Hall. Find your way to the surface, and you should encounter an Ice Beam door
as soon as you emerge. Before you enter it, scan one of the Seedlings here.
(They're the weird crawling creatures that spit out deadly seeds that home in
on you.) Head through the door, and the music will change to a really weird
track, as if it's forewarning you of the dangers ahead. Continue, blasting
Seedlings. As you cross over a bridge, you'll see a large amount of blue Phazon
below, with it crackling and shooting streams of electricity. Your suit will
also say on the HUD, in red, “Intense Radiation Detected.” Keep going, and
activate the elevator, and head down......to the dangerous Phazon Mines....

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 8

Creatures: 8
Hunter Metroid
Glider
Jelzap
Aqua Reaper
Tallon Crab
Aqua Drone
Aqua Pirate
Aqua Sac

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 0

Total scans obtained: 99
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 24
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 10
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 14
Total percentage: 48%


