---
title: Grappling for joy
order: 5
---

Alright. About now, whenever you come across enemies, they will drop new
pick-ups. These are basically yellow glowing....um....balls... Just...when you
see it, scan it. Anyway, let's head back to the Omega Research. Once you enter,
an Elite Pirate, free of his stasis pod, will smash the force field, disabling
it. Just hit him with two Super Missiles to the head. Get back to the top
level using the pathway past that now-gone force field, and jump across the gap
with the platform hovering above. There's a door blocked by Bendezium rocks.
Power Bomb it, then enter the door to get a full map of the Mines. Now, head
back to the Ventilation Shaft, and Power Bomb the Bendezium grating to break
it, revealing a computer to stop the gas, and revealing an ENERGY TANK. Now go
get it.

Now, head back to the Ore Processing. There's a third machine to your right, so
Space Jump to it and Power Bomb the Bendezium. Now, plant two Bombs in this
machine, then drop down to the second one, where you will plant three Bombs,
then drop down to the bottom one and plant one Bomb. This should line up the
yellow Spider Ball track. Climb up it, and if successful, you should reach the
top floor, with a door, leading to the Grapple Beam. This is The. Shortest.
Subsection. Ever. The door on the other side will lead back to the Main Quarry,
use a Grapple Point to get to it. Scan the Grapple Point first. Take the door
to head back to the Main Quarry. Now, from here, after you kill the Space
Pirates, head into the Security Access A. The wall to your left when you enter
is made of Bendezium. Power Bomb it to reveal another MISSILE EXPANSION. Now,
exit the Phazon Mines....but we'll be back.
