---
title: Someone set us up the Power Bomb!
order: 4
---



That is a joke of that famous game that had bad translation....I forget the
name. Ask the message boards in GameFAQs what this reference means. Anyway,
this section is actually the hardest part of the game, in that being, the Save
Points are too darn far apart, and there are a lot of powerful Pirates and
defenses. Also, fighting the enemies will require some skill, and there are a
few fun puzzles, so let's get to work.

NOTE*
Like the Missile Launcher, I'm not listing the Power Bomb as an Expansion,
it'll be listed in the “Suit upgrades” list. Just to let you know. However, any
other Expansions you get will be listed.

Head through the next tunnel, seeing even more Phazon, and you'll arrive at the
Main Quarry.....this sure looks like it's above ground, to me. It's because the
Mines are close to the Impact Crater, so the ground is a little low down here.
Anyway, there's a Spider Ball track leading to a Save Point, so use it. You'll
have to scan the conduit to get access to it. After you save, head back to the
Quarry. You'll notice some Mega Turrets trying to fire at you. Scan one first,
then destroy each with three Missiles. Now, find the stairs around here, and
climb up them. Some Space Pirates up here will spot you, so kill them. Once you
get to the top, look for a power conduit. Once you activate it, the crane
controls will turn on. Head to the crane controls and scan the computer. You
should be able to move the magnetic crane close to a Missile Expansion. Now,
find the Spider Ball tracks around here, and use them to get to the end of the
crane, where it is close to the Expansion. Drop down to that magnetic thing,
then Bomb Jump to the MISSILE EXPANSION. (For some reason, you can't un-Morph
while on the crane.)

Once you've got that, head to where those two Mega Turrets were, and scan two
consoles to unlock the force field, allowing access into the Mines. The next
tunnel will have two Mega Turrets. Knock them out, and proceed to the Mine
Security Station. Head further, and some Shadow Pirates will attack. Remember,
you can see them with thermal imaging. Once they're all dead, continue on,
ignoring the shield blocking the door. Soon, you should get to the top floor,
where Wave Troopers will assault. Scan one. Now, the only way to beat these
guys is to use the Wave Beam, but you can make it easier by using partially
charged Wave Beam shots so that the electricity will keep them from moving. Get
rid of all of them, then continue on to the next room. In the next tunnel, turn
on your Thermal Visor. Now, use a charged shot on the barrier. A Shadow Pirate
will appear as soon as you get rid of the barrier, so that's why I wanted you
to turn on your Thermal Visor. Get rid of the next barrier in the same manner,
and another Shadow Pirate will appear.

Get rid of that one, then head into the next room: the Elite Research. There
are a couple of Space Pirates here, proceed to kill them. Now, scan the
computers. You should activate some platforms, plus get a Pirate Log. Climb the
platforms, and a couple of Wave Troopers should spot you. Kill them, then head
over to the computers they were at, and scan them. You should activate some
more platforms. Climb up them to encounter a Power Trooper. Scan this one.
These can only be killed with your Power Beam. These, to me, are the hardest
Troopers, unless you use a Super Missile...*hint hint* Once he's gone, use the
Spinner to point the Pulse Beam to the rock wall exactly opposite from where
you are. Now, scan the computer to activate the Pulse Beam, which will break
the rock wall and reveal a door. (If you can't figure out how to escape the
Spinner, just plant a Bomb.) Now, before you enter, use the Spinner to point
the Pulse Beam exactly left of where you are. Scan the computer to fire it
again, and you should reveal a MISSILE EXPANSION. (You should hear a sound
effect if you got the right one.) You should have about 50% items now! Now,
head into the door that was revealed. Past the next tunnel is the Ore
Processing. A couple of Power Troopers should appear. Kill both, then head to
the machine with the holo-replica of the Spider Ball tracks on the tower. Place
one Bomb in the slot to line up the blue Spider Ball track. Take the blue one
to get to the second floor with the second machine.

Place two Bombs in the Slot, then head back to the bottom machine, and place
three Bombs in it to line up the red Spider Ball track. Use the red track, and
head through the door at the end of the track. You might be assaulted by a Wave
Trooper. If so, proceed to kill him. Past the tunnel filled with Scatter
Bombus, is an elevator to Level Two of the Mines. Take in the view of the
Impact Crater as you descend. There are some boxes in the small nook that the
next door is in, but stay away from them when you fire at them, because they
will explode. Anyway, these boxes will contain Missile or Energy pick-ups,
whichever the game decides you need more. Anyway, in this tunnel, find the
explosive box on the ledge. Shoot at it once you find it, and it will blow
open, revealing a Missile Expansion and killing two Space Pirates hiding in the
ducts. Grab the MISSILE EXPANSION, and head to the next room, the Elite
Control. As soon as you enter, a cutscene will occur, showing an Elite Pirate
waking up from his stasis pod, and smashing it open. Thus, you'll have to fight
it. Scan it first. Two Super Missile shots to the head should kill him. Beware
when his hand glows: he absorbs shots when he does that. The best time to hit
him is when he's about to shoot Missiles or create a shockwave. When he dies,
he should blow up, (eww) thus deactivating the force field to proceed. (O_o)

Anyway, once this happens, some Ice Troopers will notice, so start taking them
all out. Scan one first, of course. The best way to kill these guys is to fire
a fully charged Ice Beam shot to freeze them, then shoot them with a Missile.
Once they're all gone, (Use the background music as a reference. If it changes
back to normal, you've got them all.) scan the computers on the bottom level.
You should gain two more Pirate Logs.  Close to the stairs to the next floor
are a bunch of other computers. You should gain another Pirate Log. Head up to
the top floor, (there are no Pirate Logs on the second floor) and scan the
computers there. You should be able to gain 5 (!!) more Pirate Logs, plus
you'll deactivate the Force field here. Once you've collected them all, proceed
through the next door to the Ventilation Shaft. As soon as you enter, toxic gas
and some Puffers will fill the room. Get to the other end quickly. Now, the
next room is filled with Wave and Power Troopers. If you're low on health, then
stand as close as you can to the main part of the Ventilation Shaft without
getting hurt, (watch your Danger Meter) and start killing some Puffers. They
will drop Energy and Missile pick-ups, so just charge your Beam to reel them
in. Keep doing this until you're filled up, then head to the next room. Ignore
the computers when you enter: they contain no Pirate Logs. Immediately, a
couple of Wave Troopers will drop in and attack. Kill them, then look down from
where the platform is.

You should see a couple of Power Troopers. Kill them, then drop down to where
they were. Open the force field just in case you want to get out. Down here,
scan the computers. You should gain yet another Pirate Log. Anyway, head
through the door down here, stroll through the tunnel, and arrive at the
Central Dynamo. Head to the central machine, and a Sentry Drone will activate.
This one has a cloaking device, thus you can't scan it. Just shoot at it until
it's dead. Wavebuster is the best weapon for dealing with this nuisance. (Its
guns give away where it is. Also, you can't lock-on to it.) Once it's dead, the
“lower floor” of the room will unlock, and a maze of electricity beams will
appear. Just head through this slowly to get to the center. (There are no
Triclops.) There are some electricity beams that will shut on and off, plus,
whenever you get to a puddle of water, place a Bomb in it to splatter the
water, thus short-circuiting some electricity beams to allow you through. Head
to the center to grab the POWER BOMBS! When in Morph Ball mode, press Y to set
a Power Bomb. The blast is strong enough to break Bendezium-made structures.
Now, head into the un-blocked Ice Beam door here to get to a Save Station. Oh
man, I bet you needed one of those! We'll end this subsection now.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 15

Creatures: 5
Mega Turret
Wave Trooper
Power Trooper
Ice Trooper
Elite Pirate

Pirate Logs: 10
Elite Pirates
Metroid Prime
Hunter Weapons
Prime Breach
Chozo Ghosts
Chozo Studies
Chozo Artifacts
Prime Mutations
Omega Pirate

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 0

Total scans obtained: 114
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 27
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 10
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 15
Total percentage: 52%


