---
title: The “Plasma”'s burning me alive!
order: 8
---

Head to the Geothermal Core, as this place holds the item we're looking for in
this subsection. Find a place to climb up rock ledges, and use the Grapple
point to get to the first cylinder. Head inside the Spinner up here. Use it to
raise part of the cylinder, thus creating a higher platform. Jump to the next
cylinder, and do the same thing. Jump to the next cylinder and do the same
thing again, then use the Spider Ball track to get to the higher part of the
cylinder. Jump to the second cylinder, on the higher part, and use the Slot.
This will raise the roof of the room, revealing a whole mess of Spider Ball
tracks. Now, start moving on the Spider Ball track. Now, this is probably one
of the most fun things you'll do. You basically move around in a huge amount of
Spider Ball tracks in fascinating ways, also avoiding Plated Parasites. Just
follow the tracks, circling the whole room, until you get to the Ice Beam door
at the end. Behind it is the PLASMA BEAM. Welcome to the most broken beam in
the game. And you know what? I LOVE it. Now, let's lengthen this subsection
by collecting everything else in the Phendrana region. Since we're close to the
Magmoor Workstation, use the elevator there to head to the Phendrana region.

Once there, use the Spider Ball tracks and head up to the Ice door. In this
pathway, where a Pulse Bombu hovers, shoot at the sheet of ice with your Plasma
Beam to melt it, revealing an ENERGY TANK. Now, head to the Frost Cave. Use the
Glider here to get to the other side of the room. Once on that other side,
shoot a Missile at the stalactite here to make it crash down to the frozen
lake, breaking the ice. Head down there and collect a MISSILE EXPANSION. Now,
we can head to Phendrana's Edge. Since you have the Grapple Beam, you can use
the Grapple points to head up to the top, where a POWER BOMB EXPANSION lies in
wait past a Morph Ball tunnel. Now, head to the Gravity Chamber. Get to the
top, and use the Plasma Beam on the ice in the ceiling to reveal a Grapple
point. Use it to reach yet another MISSILE EXPANSION. Now, head all the way
back to the Quarantine Cave, and use the Grapple points to get to another
MISSILE EXPANSION behind a Morph Ball tunnel. Now, let's head back to the
Phendrana Shoreline and save. You may notice that there are more Adult
Sheegoths now. Just destroy them with your Plasma Beam since you have it, no
need to use any Missiles.

Also, don't think you're safe if you stand on a platform, away from their
reach, because they'll stomp the ground, causing you to fall because of the
tremors. Anyway, once saved, act like you're going to enter the Chozo Temple,
except when you get there, use a Super Missile on some Cordite out here. (Use
Scan Visor in case you can't find it.) This will reveal a computer. Scan it,
and a way to a MISSILE EXPANSION will open up. Collect it. Now, inspect each
column on the lower ground. We're looking for a transparent sheet of ice. Once
you find the correct one, you'll see a MISSILE EXPANSION behind it. Use your
Plasma Beam to melt the ice so you can retrieve it. Now, head over to the Ice
Ruins East. Take out the Sheegoth, then search for another transparent sheet of
ice.

Melt in the same manner as last time, and grab the MISSILE EXPANSION behind it.
Now, start climbing the ruins. When you get to the little alcove area, find a
Spider Ball track. Follow it to grab another MISSILE EXPANSION. We've only got
9 more of these Missile Expansions to go! Now, head to the Ice Ruins West. Once
there, start roof-hopping. One roof has a sheet of ice on it. Melt it and
collect the POWER BOMB EXPANSION inside. Now, I guess we've got everything, so
let's head back to the Main Quarry of the Phazon Mines.
