---
title: This Suit doesn't “Phazon” me!
order: 10
---



Alright, in the Central Dynamo, break the blockage in front of the Ice Beam
door. The next room has quite a few Mega Turrets really close together. A Super
Missile should destroy all of them. Head into the next room, where a cutscene
will occur. It'll show some Space Pirates and some Metroids, seperated by a
force field....hehe, time to get a little sneaky. Scan the computers here. One
of them will open the force field, thus releasing the Metroids. Now just sit
back and relax, and watch those Metroids and Space Pirates fighting each other.
This is a good break from you having to destroy every enemy. Of course, some
Metroids are likely to survive, and will search the room for some more
predators. Kill them when they find you. (Notice I said “when”, they will
always find you even if you try to hide.) Anyway, once all the enemies are
dead, proceed into the room that was blocked by the force field. Turn on your
X-Ray Visor, and you'll see invisible platforms. Use the mushrooms here to get
to a higher point, and jump across the platforms to the other side.

Waste a few Metroids here, then start climbing using the mushrooms. Keep your
X-Ray Visor off when fighting the Metroids, but when you aren't fighting, keep
the X-Ray Visor on. Anyway, keep climbing and using another invisible platform,
and you'll come to a Spider Ball track. Before you take it, Power Bomb the wall
to your left. It should break open. Keep going, and Power Bomb the next wall.
That one should break and reveal a Morph Ball bridge, complete with a Spider
Ball track to keep you on it. Cross it, then use your X-Ray Visor to spot
another invisible platform. Use it to hop across to another ledge with a
MISSILE EXPANSION. Get back to the first Spider Ball track and cross it to
get to a door. Just keep going until you get to an elevator that leads to Level
Three of the Mines. You know what to do to activate an elevator. Again, take in
the sites of the Impact Crater as you descend.....

The next room should be the Fungal Hall Access. Take care of the Space Pirate
here. Now, you're going to have to act quickly with this move. Drop down all
the way into the Phazon. Look around and you should see a MISSILE EXPANSION
under a mushroom. Quickly grab it and head out of the Phazon. Head to the next
room, the Fungal Hall A. Nothing really special. Just use the mushrooms to
cross the pools of Phazon, killing Hunter Metroids as you go. At the end, use
the Glider to get to the door. In the Phazon Mining Tunnel, Power Bomb the
Bendezium, and head into the maze. There's one part where a bridge over some
Phazon disappears, so you'll have to use Boost Ball to get to the other side.
Just find your way out without getting in the Phazon, and head into the Fungal
Hall B. This room's a little more interesting. Although this room has mushrooms
to platform over Phazon like before, it's pitch black, except for the glow of
Phazon, which really doesn't light up the room.

So, use your Thermal Visor to see where the mushrooms are. It's still hard to
see, but please bear it. There are also regular Metroids here, just to be
aware. At the end, you'll see a circle of tiny mushrooms just on the “shore” of
the Phazon. Place a Bomb right in the center of the circle to uncover a MISSILE
EXPANSION. Alright, head back up to where the Glider was in this room. There's
a Missile Recharge room to your left once facing the Glider if your Missiles
need refilling. Anyway, the door at the end will get you to the Quarantine
Access B. There are some invisible Bombus here. (If they have an actual name,
let me know.) You can't scan these fellas, so no worry about missing a scan on
those guys. Just get rid of them. How, you ask? Turn on your X-Ray Visor, and
you'll see. Once they're gone, jump across the mushrooms to get to the Metroid
Quarantine B. You'll see some Plasma Troopers appear. Scan one. To beat these
guys is very simple and easy. At least two charged Plasma Beam shots should
kill them. Now, find the Spider Ball track here, and start climbin'.

Once you get to the platform above the Phazon pool, look up, do a forward jump,
and immediately Grapple the Grapple point when you can reach it. You may have
to get rid of the Plasma Troopers at the other side before you attempt this.
Once you get to the other side, scan the computer. This will open the force
field to the small lab down here. Also, you'll have to fight two Wave Troopers
and a Plasma Trooper. Once they're all gone, look around in your Scan Visor for
a Cordite-made stasis pod. Shoot a Super Missile at it to unveil a MISSILE
EXPANSION. There's also a Pirate Log to get here. Head into the door at the
bottom for a Save Station. Save, then head to the top floor of the lab. Past
the door up here is the Elite Quarters Access. When you enter, a Plasma Trooper
will drop from a vent to start attacking. Kill him, then melt the ice at the
top of the barrier to allow access to the door into the Elite Quarters. Head
forward towards the large stasis pod....past the ominous surroundings of the
room. When you get close enough, the large Elite Pirate in the pod, the Omega
Pirate, will waken. It will catch sight of Samus, and break the pod open with a
smash....thus the battle begins....

---------------------
**BOSS: Omega Pirate**

Back in the days when there were no strategies for the game, Omega Pirate was
one of the hardest bosses in the game. In fact, some people couldn't beat him
until after like...a bazillion times. But now, when strategies and walkthroughs
for this game are abundant, Omega Pirate is like a....wimp...let's put it that
way. Anyway, scan this ugly thing first. His attacks are basically the same as
an Elite Pirate's. He smashes the ground to create a shockwave, has a
missile-firing backpack on him, and has that glowing hand which absorbs all
weapon fire. You already know how to avoid those attacks. Now, for the
offensive strategy. Instead of shooting at his head like you did with the
Elites, you'll have to destroy his protective armor, which are basically Phazon
globules. You can use Missiles or Super Missiles to destroy his armor, but
another effective way without using up Missiles is to use charged Plasma Beam
shots. If shot correctly, two charged Plasma shots will get rid of each part.
Once you get rid of all his protective armor, he will send out some Pirate
Troopers to deal with you, and he'll disappear. (These are those color-coded
Troopers, to let you know.)

Use the time he's invisible to quickly destroy the Troopers. If 10 seconds have
passed and you haven't taken care of all the Troopers, ignore them and switch
to your Power Beam, and start charging. If you have taken care of all of them,
then do the same thing. Now, switch to your X-Ray Visor. There's a secret to
where he goes to rebuild his armor. There are three Phazon pools. One on
the north of where the entrance door is, one on the right, and one on the left.
He should appear on the north one. When/if he does, shoot a Super Missile at
him immediately. (There should also be a strange noise accompanying his X-Ray
Visor appearance.) This will lower his health down by a lot. He should next
appear on the pool on the right of the door. When he appears, shoot another
Super Missile at him to get him a little below half health. By now, extra
color-coded Troopers should appear, but ignore them. Now, Morph into a ball,
head to the last Phazon pool. When you hear that strange sound (the sound of
him appearing in the X-Ray Visor) plant Bomb to pop you up, plant a Power Bomb,
then quickly un-Morph and switch to your X-Ray Visor. (For some reason, OP is
invincible to damage while invisible unless the X-Ray Visor is on. If done
correctly, he should be dead. Of course, only if he follows that pattern. He
may do another pattern, but I'm not entirely sure. I've only fought him once or
twice.

*thanks to that one speedy video of beating Omega Pirate for this strategy*

*NOTE:
The Power Bomb strategy only seems to work on the PAL version of the game. So
if you don't have the PAL version, just stick to firing Super Missiles at him.
---------------------

Once he's beaten, the Omega Pirate will fall right on top of Samus. You'll see
Phazon coming out of him, with a lot of bubbling. Finally, Samus will emerge
from the Omega Pirate, dripping Phazon, and her suit's color has changed, as
well. Since she has been exposed to pure Phazon, the Phazon has changed her
suit, allowing her to stand in most Phazon forms. Notice I said “most”, we will
encounter Phazon later on that will damage you. Samus has now acquired the
PHAZON SUIT! (If you notice, her suit now has a neat aura around it. This aura
also shows that the suit's shielding capacity has increased dramatically.) To
exit here, find the elevator and activate it, then walk along the catwalks, to
the door, which will lead to the last ENERGY TANK. Scan the conduit here to
unlock the gate. Walk through the Phazon, through the door, and into the Phazon
Processing Center.

NOTE: Once again, the JPN version gets a different Phazon Suit acquirement
cutscene. Note, I said DIFFERENT. That doesn't mean it's better. *ahem* Check
www.metroid2002.com for videos of the differences.

There will be quite a few color-coded Space Pirates here, so take them all out.
Now, go on one of the ledges here. If you're on a ledge where you hear the
pulsing noise of an item the most, (it's at the right wall of the room when
coming out of the door on the catwalk) Power Bomb the wall to collect another
MISSILE EXPANSION. Head up to the very top of the room, and head through, to
Magmoor Caverns. Just head through the tunnels and blast away at the Bendezium
rocks. Remember this place now? The Magmoor Workstation. Let's head all the way
back to the Tallon Overworld Landing Site, and restore everything at the ship
and save. Alright, we're going to clean up, now. First, head to the Root Cave.
Here, use the Grapple point to reach the other end, and start climbing.
Eventually, you'll see to come across a dead-end. Use the X-Ray Visor. While
standing on a platform, you should see a MISSILE EXPANSION. (If you have X-Ray
Visor on.) Grab it, then head through the door up here for another MISSILE
EXPANSION. Now, head to the Great Tree Hall. At the top, use the X-Ray Visor to
spot an invisible platform. Use it to reach a door, which behind it is the last
MISSILE EXPANSION. Alright, head back to your ship and recharge and save. End
subsection and section.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 3

Creatures: 2
Plasma Trooper
Omega Pirate

Pirate Logs: 1
Special Forces

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 0*

Total scans obtained: 121
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 3
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total percentage: 86%
* means that you have acquired the maximum there is in the game


