---
title: Wave Buster add-on
order: 1
---

Once you arrive in Magmoor Caverns, you'll notice a Save Station is behind you.
Might as well use it. Alright, head on through to the Magmoor Workstation,
being careful of the flamethrowers on the ceiling of the preceding tunnel. As
soon as you enter, a couple of Flying Pirates will assault you: take them out
as before, and head into the bottom floor. Now, turn on your Thermal Visor.
We'll need to search for three power conduits, but they aren't covered by
anything like Cordite or anything, so...do it. Once you do, a passageway filled
with lava in the “lower floor” with Triclops will cool, allowing access. You'll
also have a time limit to get there. So, find the way in the “lower floor”, and
head through that path that opened. At the end, is a scannable computer. Scan
it, and another path will open up, cooling the lava on that path as well. Go
through that path to reach another computer. Scan that one to open yet another
path, cooling the lava on that one as well. Head through that tunnel to finally
grab a well-deserved ENERGY TANK. Now, head toward a door somewhere in the
Workstation to head forward. (If you come to a tunnel with blockage, you're
taking the wrong one.)

You should come across a Puddle Spore, a large....creature...just scan it, and
then shoot at it's....mouth to make it turn over so you can use it as
a....platform....wierd creature. Anyway, keep going, through the GeoThermal
Core using more of those Puddle Spores, 'til you get to the other side. The
only thing I'll tell you now, is that in the following rooms, sometimes you'll
have to lock-on and fire a Missile at a rock stalactite to make a path. Just
keep going through, knocking down stalactites when you need to, going through
rooms, until you come to a dead-end. There's a Spider Ball track hidden around
here. Use it to cross the lava. At the elevator, use it to reach the Tallon
Overworld. Save and refill your ammo at your ship, then once you get to Tallon
Canyon, head to the Chozo Ruins elevator and use it. Once at the Ruins, head to
the Main Plaza. *whew*

Alright. In the Main Plaza, we have another Missile Expansion to grab. First,
head up to the bridge. If you look to your right while facing the bridge,
(while “up” there, get my drift?) you should see a ledge. Jump to that, then
face the tree. Start shooting at it until you come to a point where your shots
repel. Use a Super Missile on that spot to blow it open and reveal the
MISSILE EXPANSION. You'll have to Space Jump to reach it. Now, head to the
Ruined Shrine. Once there, use the half-pipe to reach a tunnel that leads to a
Spider Ball track. Use it, then head all the way to the Tower of Light. In
here, climb up the platforms until you can't climb anymore. Now, you see the
cracks on the pillars? Fire three Missiles at each crack to break the pillars,
and this will lower the Tower. Now, head up to the next platform quickly,
because some Plated Puffers will appear and circle the platform you were on.
These guys are different, in that they can't be destroyed with your Beam, so
scan one. A Missile will still get rid of them, but it's best you save your
Missiles for this job. Besides, they'll pop whenever you jump over them
for some reason. Anyway, keep climbing until you can't climb anymore, then
repeat the process. Watch out for the Oculus' though, they'll repel your
Missile shots if you hit them. Scan one first. Just keep going with this
process of lowering the tower, until you get to the Wave Buster.

To use the Wave Buster, charge up a shot with your Wave Beam, then press Y.
This will release a beam of energy at an enemy at the cost of 10 Missiles. If
you hold the A Button, you can continue shooting the beam at the cost of 5
Missiles every second. Since this beam has an auto-tracking feature, you don't
need to be locked-on to an enemy. Since this move is more costly than the Super
Missiles, only use this for special occasions.
