---
title: Boost Ball acquired
order: 1
---



First, after the elevator, fall down the next room, then continue through the
hallways, busting those Shriekbats, until you reach a Save Room. (Behind a door
with a Blast Shield.) In the room ahead, you'll see your first pool of lava. A
platform is in the middle, and a Grizby scuttling around. Scan it first, then
hit it with a Missile. The reason to use a Missile, is because their shells are
too hard, so they can't be hurt with any kind of Beam. Anyway, continue beating
up the Grizbys and jumping across platforms, avoiding jets of flame, until you
reach a tunnel. There's a burrowing uh...Burrower here. Scan it. When it pops
out of the ground, hit it a few times with your beam to destroy it.  Keep going
until you reach Lava Lake, which a cutscene will show the whole room, including
some new enemies. After the scene is over, a Magmoor should pop out of the lava
in front of you. Scan it, then proceed to literally blow it's head off. There
are also some Puffers here. Scan one. These things can be blown up with one
shot, but they leave a puff of poisonous air. Wait for the puff to disappear
before you move on. Just continue through this part of the Lake, popping
Puffers and blowing the other Magmoor's head off, 'til you get to the other
side, which seems like a dead-end. Not to worry. You see the boxes here?
Destroy them to reveal a Sandstone wall. Do you remember that Sandstone walls
can be broken with Bombs? *hint hint*

Just bomb your way through the tunnel until you get to the other part of the
Lake, which you basically do the same thing. Pop the Puffers, and jump across
platforms to the other side. Oh, I almost forgot to tell you. If you're in
close range of a Puffer when it pops, you'll take damage, and the force of the
blast could knock you off a platform and into some lava. Double damage. Anyway,
you should eventually come to the Pit Tunnel. The room basically has a lava
cylinder in the middle, and an opening at the bottom of the room, filled with
Triclops. Scan a Triclops before you head into the Morph Ball opening.
According to the scan, their only weak spot is the mouth....you know what that
means? Place a Bomb near one of them, and it'll suck it up, thinking it's food,
and it'll blow up, right in its mouth. Also, if you are caught by one of the
Triclops, they will literally show you the exit, which is where you entered
this small opening. Just get to the other side of this room, blowing up those
Triclops' mouths. You should end up in the Triclops Pit, a similar room in that
it has a “lower floor”, but it's MUCH bigger.

There are platforms leading up to the top, but here, we need to get a Missile
Expansion. First, get to the opening of the lower floor. There should be a
tunnel in some rock that contains that. By the way, the tunnel has jets of hot
air shooting out of some holes, making it a little hard to see. Anyway, once
you get to the “lower floor”, look for a hole around here while
avoiding/destroying the Triclops. Once you do find the hole, go through it to
come to a room with a door. Climb up to it and open it. Walk through the small
tunnel to get to a lava pit with some grating acting as a passageway. Walk
through the “passageway” to get to that MISSILE EXPANSION. Now, head all the
way back to the Triclops Pit room and start climbing the platforms, being aware
of the Puffers up there. In case you're having trouble finding a way to the
platforms, try climbing up the rocks on the edge of the room. Once you do get
to the top, go through the door up there.

DISCOVERY*
I just found this out. If you get caught by one of those Triclops, rotate the
Control Stick as much as you can. If successful, you should break free from the
Triclops' mandibles.

Go through the Monitor Tunnel to the huge Monitor Station. The tower in the
center is one of the Space Pirates'..um...bases. Once you enter, around three
or four Auto-Defense Turrets should activate. Uh-oh, better get rid of them!
They're the same as the ones on that Frigate, but are more powerful. Two
Missiles (instead of one) should get rid of each. Once they're gone, start
climbing around the exterior of the cavern. There should be another door to
your left, but we'll ignore it for now. Just focus on climbing up the rocks. At
the middle, you should encounter another Turret.  Take it out, then jump to the
extended catwalk to get to a lab-like room in the tower. You can scan the
computers here to see what the Space Pirates are up to in the Magmoor Caverns,
but you won't get anything added to your Log Book.

Anyway, once you enter that little room, there should be another catwalk
leading to a door. Go through the door to get to a hole, which will lead to a
Morph Ball Maze. Now, before we go through the bottom of this maze to the other
side, let's get the Energy Tank hidden here. As soon as you enter the maze, you
should be right on a block made of Sandstone. This Sandstone will be able to
withstand two blasts of Bombs. Standing on this block, do that Double Bomb Jump
technique. (If you don't remember how, go back to where we were at the Vault in
the walkthrough.) Once done correctly, you should be able to reach a higher
ledge. Get on that to get to a dead-end with another rock. Double Bomb Jump up
to another ledge, and at the end of that ledge should be a dead-end with
another block. Double Bomb Jump one last time to grab the ENERGY TANK and fall
straight to the bottom floor. Take the exit to the next room, and you should
reach an elevator to Phendrana Drifts. Activate the conduit and use the
elevator.

You should now be at Phendrana Drifts. The hallway ahead should be blocked with
ice. You can break it with a Missile, but if you want to conserve Missiles,
(which would be pointless, considering you'll just gain the Missile back by
beating an enemy) use a charged shot. Keep destroying the ice in your path
until you get to Phendrana Shores. In front of you should be a Save Station,
and you might need it, depending on how tough you think you are. After saving,
we've got a couple of scans to accumulate. First, is the Crystallite. These are
those scuttling bugs similar to the Grizby, except the shell is made of ice.
Like the Grizby, it is vulnerable to concussion blasts. (Missiles) However,
once you acquire the Plasma Beam, they will be destroyed in one hit. The next
scan is the Flickerbat. Those are those bird-like creatures you see flying
above you. They aren't really harmful in the Shores, because they are too high.
Remember, I'm listing scans you have to get, so scan those two creatures.
There's an obstacle at the end of some river that can be destroyed with a
Missile. Behind it is something to scan, which actually unlocks the door above.

Now, remember the entryway to the Save Station? Facing the shores while in that
entry, there will be a bunch of ledges which create a stair-like obstacle.
Climb up them, destroying the Crystallites on the way up, and head into the
door at the top you just unlocked. In this tunnel, shoot the ice with a charged
shot/Missile. There should be some Scatter Bombus here. Scan one. Like the
Pulse Bombus, these electricity-emitting cousins cannot be destroyed with your
current weapon. To pass through their energy waves, just Morph through an open
spot. Through this tunnel should be the Ice Ruins East. As you move on, you'll
notice blue creatures will pop out of the ground. These are Baby Sheegoths.
Scan one. Their only weak spot is their back, so keep dashing side to side
while locked onto 'em to shoot their backs. Their only attacks are: ice breath,
ice projectile, and ram. You'll have to be careful with their ice breath
manuever, as it'll freeze you if you're fully caught in it. It's only a
short-range attack, though, so stray away from them. They'll use their ram move
when you're too far. Just do a quick dash to avoid damage. After their shells
are destroyed, a few more shots to their back will do them in. If you notice,
it looks like the holes in their skin are filled with a blue-ish substance.
Trust me, you'll be seeing a lot more of that stuff, only this time, it's not
in those creatures.

Anyway, you see the ruins? Climb up them, and basically go roof-hopping to the
door at the end. In this tunnel are some Ice Burrowers. They're basically the
same as the Burrowers, but instead they live in a cold (read: very cold)
environment. Scan one, then shoot them when they pop out. As you progress
through the tunnel, getting rid of those Ice Burrowers, you'll see small traces
of that blue-ish substance. This stuff won't harm you now, since they're in
very small traces. The door at the end will lead you into a high alcove in the
Shores. There's another door to your left. Take it, and through the small open
area filled with Pulse Bombus, and you'll reach Ice Ruins West. There are a
couple more Baby Sheegoths here, but before you deal with them, enter the small
ruins to your right. Past a Crystallite, is a Chozo Lore, which is probably the
only Chozo Lore you'll find in this region. Anyway, scan it, then proceed back
to where the Baby Sheegoths are, and destroy them. Around the ruins here,
you'll find a door with a Blast Shield hidden in a little corridor.

Head through the door to come to a tunnel full of Scatter Bombus, that leads to
a LONG open area. There's a bridge below, drop down to it, then turn around.
You should see a Chozo Lore. Scan it, then drop down to the floor at the end of
the bridge. Fight the Baby Sheegoth with the small space you have, and once
it's gone, find a snowy incline and climb up it. There should be a conduit.
Scan it, and the platforms will line up. Proceed across them with out stopping,
(otherwise you'll fall with the platform) and grab the item at the end. BOOST
BALL!! After you collect it, a cutscene should show a lake which has been
frozen into a half-pipe figure. Use the Speed Ball to get to the ledge above,
and proceed out of here. As you exit, your auto-tracking device will search for
more “half-pipe” configurations. It turns out, that there's one in particular,
in the Tallon Overworld, in the room, “Tallon Canyon.” Yes, that means we'll
have to go all the way back to where we first started this item hunt, in the
Overworld.

Just head out of the Ice Ruins West and back to the ledge overlooking the
Shores. Walk towards the edge, and a cutscene will show Meta-Ridley flying
right above Samus, heading towards the land above Magmoor Caverns, and
disappearing in the horizon. Then the cutscene will end........well, at least
we know he/it's on this planet, eh? Anyway, use the elevator to head back into
the Magmoor Caverns, and retrace your path, backtracking all the way to the
elevator to the Chozo Ruins, as we've got a few Missile Expansions to get there
since we got the Boost Ball. You can save near the elevator if you want. (It's
recommended that you do, though. I mean, we did a lot since the last time we
saved.) Just head to the Chozo Ruins. Once you're there, read the next
subsection. This one is done.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 11

Creatures: 10
Grizby
Burrower
Magmoor
Puffer
Triclops
Crystallite
Flickerbat
Scatter Bombu
Baby Sheegoth
Ice Burrower

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 1
Cipher
The Turned

Research: 0

Total scans obtained: 52
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 7
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 4
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 6
Total percentage: 17%


