---
title: Super Missile add-on
order: 4
---



Yes, unlike Super Metroid and Zero Mission, the Super Missiles aren't a
different weapon. It's an add-on like Metroid Fusion, except you can still use
Missiles. Anyway, look around in the Ice Ruins East or Ice Ruins West. We're
looking for Ice Shriekbats. Once you find them, scan them, otherwise we won't
be able to get them after we get the Thermal Visor. Anyway, once that's done,
head into the Ice Ruins West. Here, do you remember the ruins that you got the
Chozo Lore? Well, since you have the Space Jump Boots, you can start climbing
up these small ruins from the inside. You should eventually reach a vantage
point, overlooking part of the Ice Ruins West. Right in front of you is a
stalactite, called a Stalactite. Scan it first, then shoot at it (with a
Missile) where your lock-on shows you, and the stalactite should fall to the
ground, providing a “stepping stool” to a higher place. Drop down and jump onto
the fallen stalactite, and to your left should be an alcove, jump up to it.
Now, just keep roof-hopping until you reach a purple door. These doors are Wave
Beam doors. Use your Wave Beam to open them.

Go through the tunnel, getting rid of the Scarabs and the Pulse Bombu, and
you'll arrive at the Ruined Courtyard. Now, we need to do some work in order to
progress. If you notice, you'll see a Spider Ball track which leads upwards,
but we don't have the Spider Ball yet, so we'll have to do the hard work for
now. You see the devices on both ends of the Courtyard? Those are Spinners.
Scan one. Basically, Morph Ball into them, and repeatedly use the Boost Ball to
activate them. Once you activate them both, the mouths of four statues will
open (they're at the top of the Courtyard) and a Slot will light up. Head over
to the Slot and place a Bomb in it to start filling the place with water. Cross
the floating sheets of ice over to the over side, and roll down the tube with
the Morph Ball and grab an ENERGY TANK. There's a hole to exit here. Fill up
the room again, because the water will have drained. Once you do that, jump
across the floating sheets of ice again, BUT, jump onto the wooden path
surrounding the middle pillar. (Be careful of Flickerbats.) Now, start climbing
to the top using your Space Jump.

Now, there are three doors here. The one to your left is not powered yet, the
one in front of you has an entrance to a Space Pirate base, and the one on the
right leads to a Save Station. If you're thinking correctly, the Save Station
should be your first priority. After you save, head into the Space Pirate base.
Immediately after you enter, an Auto-Defense Turret will activate. Use a few
Missiles to destroy it. All of a sudden, a Space Pirate will jump out of the
shadows and attack you. This is a Shadow Pirate. Scan him before he gets too
close to you. Proceed to destroy him, and head through to the next room. A
cutscene should should you getting detected by a drone, the door behind you
will lock, and a bunch of Space Pirates will come flying out of corridors.
These are normal ones, so scan one. These ones fire at you, but in close range
they can do melee attacks as well. Just keep hitting them with anything you've
got to defeat them. After they're all gone, head into the door down here to get
a map of the whole Phendrana Drifts, including the SP (Space Pirate) base.
W00t!!

There's a pathway to the upper floor in this room, (not the Map room) so head
up. Also, be careful of the Defense Turret here, it'll knock you off if you're
not careful. Just use Missiles on one whenever you find one. Head through the
door at the top level. Through the tunnel, you should reach Research Lab Hydra,
but there's a force field here. The nearby conduit should unlock the force
field. Apparently, you came at just the wrong time, as there are Space Pirates
in the Lab, so you must proceed to take them out. You'll have to search all
floors to get rid of all the Space Pirates. You'll know when you've got them
all when the music changes back to normal. Once they're all gone, head back to
the bottom floor of the Lab, and scan EVERYTHING. That includes scanning
everything on every floor. Some of the scans are actually Space Pirate Logs, so
scan them all. Once you're done scanning this Lab for info, you should have
accumulated about 5 Space Pirate Logs. Alright, shoot at the door in the roof
(at the top floor) and head on through. You'll be at an icy Observatory Access,
with a bunch of Turrets guarding the entry. Proceed to destroy all three, then
head into the Observatory, where you'll encounter a hoard of Space Pirates. -_-

Kill them off, then head to the computers and start scanning. (Also, check the
computers above and behind you once facing the computers on the ground. I'm not
sure if there are any scans to accumulate on those elevated ones, but check
anyway.) One of the computers should activate a Morph Ball Slot. You should
also have gained 2 more Space Pirate Logs. (Boy, we're swimming in those,
huh?) Anyway, use the Slot to activate another Slot, and use THAT one to turn
on some Spinners. Use all four of the Spinners at the bottom of the contraption
to finally activate the holographic simulation of the solar system where all
the Metroids took place. Scan all the planets to grab some info, but only two
scans will be added to your Research: Zebes, and Tallon IV. At the top of the
Observatory is a Save Station. Save it, then grab the Super Missile add-on
while heading towards the next room. (Or, you can grab the add-on before you
save....) Alright! Now you can use the powerful SUPER MISSILE! To use it,
Charge up a shot with your POWER Beam, (not your Wave Beam) and when it's fully
charged, press the Y button. This is great for blowing up things made of
Cordite. Note that this move uses 5 Missiles in order to work, so use them
sparingly. Let's end this subsection.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 14

Creatures: 3
Shadow Pirate
Space Pirate
Ice Shriekbat

Pirate Logs: 7
Mining Status
Security Breaches
Phazon Analysis
Parasite Larva
Glacial Wastes
Contact

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 4
Spinner
Zebes
Tallon IV
Stalactite

Total scans obtained: 69
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 13
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 5
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 9
Total percentage: 27%


