---
title: Waving at the Wave Beam
order: 3
---

Alrighty. Now that we are in Magmoor Caverns, you have two places to go. Let's
go to the right. There will be a Morph Ball corridor on the side of the wall.
Proceed through it to get to the other side, avoiding the Magmoor. Once you get
there, you can kill the Magmoor if you want. Head through the door and head
into the main part of Fiery Shores. A Magmoor should pop out of the lava. Kill
it, then destroy the boxes on your left. They block another Morph Ball passage.
Go through the passage, Bomb Jumping and slowly moving across the catwalks, to
get another MISSILE EXPANSION. Drop down to a ledge with a Triclops. Make sure
he doesn't spit you into the lava. Just jump across the platforms, avoiding the
Triclops, and head through the door. After the tunnel here, you should end up
in the Monitor Station. What a fine shortcut there! If you notice, you came out
of that door I told you to ignore before. Now from here, just head into
Phendrana Drifts and into the Shores.

Ok, proceed to climb up those “stairs”, but before you cross the gap using that
pillar to reach the door, turn around and you'll see a platform. Space Jump to
it, and find a similar platform lower from where you're at. If you've watched
the demo playing at the Title Screen, then do the same thing. If you haven't,
here's what you do. Use the R Button to look down at the platform, then hold
the L Button to hold the position. (You can't move while holding the R Button,
that's why you need to hold the L Button.) Seeing the platform is much better.
Use that view to help you Space Jump to the platform. Once you make it, Space
Jump to the ledge containing a huge Chozo Temple. Enter.

There will be a Pulse Bombu here, and some ice blocking the hallway. You can't
use a charged shot, because the Pulse Bombu will come right at you while you're
charging. Use a Missile to break the ice. Go through the tunnel to officially
enter the Chozo Temple. In the main hall, you'll see several platforms with
Crystallites leading upwards, a Baby Sheegoth on the ground, and a Statue
representing a Chozo holding the plane of existance on his hands. Climb up the
platforms, getting rid of the Crystallites as you go. Eventually, you'll come
to a bridge-like platform with Ice Parasites climbing all over it. Scan one of
those Ice Parasites, and kill them, then Space Jump to the corridor ahead.
Notice that you'll see several headshots of different Chozo made of rocks. The
Chozo Statue in front of you has it's hands frozen, and there's a door blocked
by a Chozo Gate. You can't break it at all, so scan it. I'll read what the scan
says.

“A statue depicting the bust of a Chozo Shaman adorns this door. A symbol is
carved into it's forehead. The translation reads: 'To pass my gaze, seek my
twin within this room.'”

Hmm, “To pass my gaze, seek my twin within this room.” And it's a bust of a
Chozo shaman....Alright. Scan each of those busts that I told you about while
walking towards the Statue with it's hands frozen. Scan each of them until you
encounter one that is a bust of another Chozo Shaman. You'll also see that
“several fractures are detected on the forehead.” Shoot a Missile at the bust
to open up a Morph Ball Slot. Use it, and the gate will unlock the door. Past
the door is another Morph Ball maze. Now, in order to go through this, you have
to get rid of the blocks that are below the blockage. There's a rock to lead
you down to clear the path. Just keep doing this until you reach a door that
leads to the icy Chapel of Elders. Head towards the power-up. Wait. What was
that shaking? Ah, probably nothing. Just keep heading towards it....well, now
it's gone. A couple of Baby Sheegoths have just appeared! Kill them and two
more Baby Sheegoths will reveal themselves.

Kill them, and an Adult Sheegoth will break through an ice wall with extreme
force. Wow, quite a big character, isn't it? Scan it first, and you'll realise
that the crystals on its back will absorb any shots you shoot at. The thing to
do is, you have to wait until he does an attack. (You can make it faster by
shooting the crystals, as he uses the stored power for his attacks.) After
the attack is over, he will start hyperventilating, indicating Adults have poor
stamina. While he is hyperventilating, shoot him in the head with Missiles. You
can only shoot a few before he's back to normal again. Keep doing this,
shooting his head with Missiles while he's hyperventilating, until he's dead,
allowing you access to the WAVE BEAM. Note that the Adult might drop a pick-up,
especially an Ultra Energy, so wait around until the Adult's carcass
disappears. Now, you can switch to the Wave Beam by pressing right on the
C-stick! You're going to use this a lot, so keep it equipped. Also, now you can
destroy those Bombus! Just head back to the Shores and save at the Save
Station.

**DISCOVERY**
I found out how to make your Missiles able to rapid-fire! Just keep pressing
the Y and A buttons simultaneously to fire Missiles faster than normal! This is
great for those bosses that require Missiles to destroy, and that you want to
finish the battle quickly. (Example: Adult Sheegoth) But, in order for this to
work, you have to be switched to the Power Beam. Also, if you run out of
Missiles, just use bombs on his underside.

