---
title: Final Bout
order: 1
---

You'll now arrive at the Impact Crater. There will be a Save Point to your
left, so use it. Now, head into the next room to find.....red Phazon. Avoid
this stuff, because it's actually too powerful for your Phazon Suit. Across the
room is a swarm of Lumigeks, Parasites that live in and around Phazon. Scan one
before the swarm leaves. Head into the next room after a couple of red Phazon
pools, and you'll get to a HUGE, tall room with a large pillar in the center.
Around here, you'll encounter Fission Metroids, Metroids that have been exposed
to powerful Phazon 24/7. Scan one of these guys, then proceed to kill them with
charged Plasma shots, as these have an immunity to cold. But, when you damage
it enough, it'll split up into two other Fission Metroids! The two that it
splits up into both are vulnerable to only one type of Beam. As an example,
when a Fission Metroid splits up, say the first Metroid is yellow, and the
other one is white. Use your Power Beam to get rid of the yellow Fission
Metroid, and use the Ice Beam to destroy the white Fission Metroid. Just like
the color-coded Space Pirates.

It's better to start climbing than fighting them, because practically every
time you deal with a Fission Metroid, another one will show up, so just start
climbing. (or you can use Power Bombs to blow them up if they get too close)
Make sure you grab a scan for these Fissions, though. Around halfway up, you'll
encounter a Missile Station. Use it, because you need your Missiles for the
final boss. Anyway, keep climbing, and you'll get to the top. Head through the
door here and head through the series of Spider Ball tracks to reach the end.
The next room has...the enemy you've been searching for in the game.....Metroid
Prime. It right now looks like a mechanical scorpion of sorts, due to all the
Space Pirate technology it assimilated. (See one of the Pirate Logs for more
info.)

---------------------
FINAL BOSS: Metroid Prime

As soon as the battle starts, Prime will break through the wall behind him to
head to a new area. He's not a coward, he just wants a wide-open room so he can
test all his weaponry on Samus. Just follow him, and Samus will do her classic
spinning jump, and land in the room below. Now, scan this ugly creature. Now,
like Meta-Ridley, this boss has a number of attacks. One is his Missile
barrage. Just double side dash to avoid that. He also slams the ground with his
forelegs and creates a line of ice. Dash or jump over to avoid. He also has a
breath attack, he also has a tractor beam, (which he'll use as a last resort
when his health is low) use the Boost Ball to escape that. He can also fire
poison bombs, which when they explode, will send out poisonous gas in a wide
radius. Also, when you're too close to him, he'll use melee attacks. Now moving
on to the really deadly attacks. He can also ram you. Back up real far to avoid
this, or, if applicable, Morph into a ball and hide in one of the ditches.

When he passes over you, he'll create tremors, which may throw you out of the
ditch, so be careful. He also shoots energy balls. Concentrate on these when he
fires them, as if they touch you, they'll explode and will cause Samus to lose
her Visor sight, and you can't fire at all, for a few seconds. Plus, they do
high damage, so take them out. The type of energy balls he creates varies,
depending on what color he is, and I'll explain it in a minute. Also, watch for
Prime when dealing with the energy balls, as he might do an attack if you're
not looking. If so, dodge it any way you can. His last attack his firing a beam
from his mouth. Again, the effects of the beam vary depending on his color. If
he's yellow, you'll just take a lot of damage. If he's purple, your Visor will
malfunction, but you'll still be able to see. If he's white, you'll freeze, in
which the same thing will happen if a white energy ball touches you. If he's
red, you'll catch on fire for a few seconds and get your energy drained really
quickly.

Now, for an offensive. Just shoot at his eyes, but, his color will decide which
beam you have to use, so it's the same as the Fission Metroids and/or the
color-coded Space Pirates in the Mines. When he's yellow, find an appropriate
firing time, and shoot Super Missiles at him. When he's purple, use your Wave
Buster. When he's white, use your Ice Spreader. When he's red, just use your
Plasma Beam, as the Flamethrower in this battle is useless. He has to be
practically right over you for it to work right. When he's taken enough damage,
he'll flash red and get knocked back, so if your using the Wave Buster, stop
when he gets knocked back. Keep draining his energy as both of you descend
deeper and deeper, until he's finally faster than before, when he has more than
a sliver of health left.

Also, when he gets knocked back, he'll do a charge, so be ready to hide in the
ditch whenever you knock him back. When his health is low, he'll use his ram
without getting knocked back, so beware. Anyway, when his health is fully
depleted, he'll stagger onto a wall, break it open, and fall down the hole.
Walk over to the open wall, and Samus will look down, and see an abyss.....O_O
She'll take a long drop, and land in a room. Metroid Prime will emerge from his
mechanical coverings and reveal his true self, thus starting the second phase
of the battle. Scan him again, and you should get a message saying you have
collected 100% scans! Stop the dancing around, we've got a boss to finish up.

OK, now, he's invulnerable to all of your Beam weaponry, so just lock-on to him
to keep an eye on him. He'll send out numerous energy waves, just jump over
them. Easy. Soon, he'll create a puddle of pure Phazon, and will disappear.
Step into the puddle, and your Arm Cannon will be supercharged, capable of
shooting streams of Phazon. Switch to your X-Ray Visor to see Prime, and let
him have it with a stream of Phazon until you've drained all the Phazon from
the puddle.

Keep jumping over his energy waves, and when he creates another puddle of
Phazon, he'll also create a couple of Metroids. Just step into the puddle and
shoot Phazon at the Metroids to kill them with one shot. Now, switch to your
Thermal Visor to see him now. Let him have it with another stream of Phazon,
and he should have around half-health by the time you're finished. By now, when
he should create Hunter Metroids. Just kill them with the Phazon Beam. (That's
when you can shoot Phazon.) Hit him again, (he should be visible in normal
sight, now) he should have a quarter of his health left, in which he'll create
Fission Metroids. If you do get caught in one of them, a Power Bomb should kill
them all. Anyway, when you get the chance to hit him again switch back to your
X-Ray Visor and get him. Keep going until its health is fully depleted.
---------------------

Prime will form into a spiky membrane, (no, I do not believe it's an X Parasite
Core) and will grab onto Samus with one of his spikes. After a hard struggle,
Prime will take her Phazon Suit, and some of her DNA. He then will start to
explode, and Samus will escape back to the Artifact Temple. The temple will
start blowing up, so she calls her gunship, and she leaps off just when the
ledge explodes. Her ship will catch her in the nick of time. She'll then take
her helmet off, looking over the Temple with a look of concern, then will close
her eyes as if in disgust. (It's actually hard to describe.) She will then fly
off, with the Credits rolling.

When the Credits are over, you will see Samus's Gunship taking off at warp
speed once escaping the planet's atmosphere. You'll see the Congratulations
screen, showing your item %age and completion time. If you have 100% ITEMS,
then another cutscene will show up, showing a big bubbling pool of Phazon in
the room where you just fought Prime's second form. The camera will close in,
and a black hand with an eye on the back will break free of the pool. The hand
will open its eye, and with an ominous roar, the cutscene fades and gets you to
a Save prompt. Do so, and that's the end.
