---
title: First Steps
order: 0
---



You'll start out at a damaged Space Frigate, the place where the distress
signal came from. Samus will take a huge jump from her ship onto the frigate,
and you will control her once it gets in her visor view. To start off, you will
need to hit the four targets right in front of you to get rid of the force
field blocking your path. Use the L Button if you have trouble aiming. After
the force field is gone, proceed through to a pillar in the center of this
platform. Scan it, and 6 targets will appear. Hit them all to lower another
force field. Past that, jump up the stair, and head through the door after you
go through the path. Keep going until you head to the Air Lock. Scan the
machine beside the path to repressurize the room, so you can head into the
frigate itself. You will end up in the Emergency Evacuation Area.

If you look around, you'll see a few dead Space Pirates and what appears to be
a dead Parasite Queen. (You'll encounter a live one, later.) If you look
closely, you'll see some lizard-like Parasites eating away at the dead bodies.
Since they're enemies, scan one of them before they leave. This creature will
be added to your Log Book. Alright, head through this room to the other side.
You'll find a partially alive Space Pirate laying down on the ground. Put him
out of his misery....yes...shoot him. Anyway, after you kill him, head through
the next door to come to a blockage in the hallway, use the Charge Beam to blow
it away. (Hold A 'til fully charged, then release) Apparently, a Space Pirate
was here, and got his head cut off because he got caught in that
debris....ech.. Anyway, head into the next hallway to find a couple of
Parasites going through a ventilation duct, follow them using your Morph Ball,
(X) to find a Map Station! But, before you use it, scan it first, THEN you can
use it.

Oi, quite a big frigate, huh? Anyway, head back and head through the next door.
In this hallway, you'll see wreckage, but you can't get rid of it with your
Charge Beam. The solution? Morph Ball through the small passageway to get to
the other side. Oh, and watch out for the electricity blocking the opening.
Head through the door at the end to end up in the Biotech Research Area 1.
You'll see another Parasite Queen, but it's in stasis hibernation. Don't worry
about it, just walk around it. You'll see a Space Pirate walking around here
like a zombie, and one lying on the floor trying to get up, once again, put
them out of their misery. I know you would rather help them, but they are
ruthless, and will fire at you even if injured badly. That's why you need to
get rid of them. Anyway, go through the door across the room. Just around the
corner in this corridor, is an Auto-Defense Turret. Scan it first, then shoot a
Missile at it to destroy it. (Y) It should drop a Missile pick-up. (it glows
orange) Scan it then pick it up to get your Missile back.

You'll end up in Biohazard Containment, where you'll see another Parasite
Queen. It's stored in a stasis pod, but appears to be dead, so ignore it. The
computer in front of you should contain a Pirate Data Log, so scan it. If you
look around the stasis chamber, you'll see another turret, so shoot another
Missile at it. To pick up the ammo now, you have to charge your Charge Beam,
the ammo will come right to you like a tractor beam, so the Charge Beam is
useful for this, too. On your right once past the stasis chamber, is a
scannable computer thing, scan it to activate the elevator to the second floor.
Take it, and you'll find a Space Pirate on the floor, kill it, and it should
drop a purple sphere. It's a health pickup, which restores 10 health units.
Scan it first before you pick it up. Head around here to find a couple more
Space Pirates, a little stronger than you've encountered so far. Kill them both
and collect their pickups, then head into the door at the end of the path,
after you kill the Space Pirate lying next to it.

Go through the hallway to arrive at the Cargo Freight Lift to Deck Gamma. There
will be another Defense Turret to your right, take care of it with another
Missile, then pick up the refill. There's a computer conduit right next to the
freight lift, scan it to open the lift. Head inside and touch the hologram to
get it moving. When you arrive at the bottom, a non-injured Space Pirate will
fall down and surprise attack, he's a lot tougher than the hindered ones you
came across, so heavy firepower is recommended.

Once he's dead, scan the computer next to the door to open a hologram. “Please
insert metallic sphere to open door.” Well, if that isn't obvious enough, roll
into the hologram with your Morph Ball. This will open the door up. Go through,
annihilate the turrets in that room, collect their pickups, then go to the left
door for a Save Station. Scan this, too, either after you're done with it or
before. Head back, and scan the next computer conduit to activate another Morph
Ball hologram. You know what to do. After you open the door and head through, a
cutscene will show a Parasite Queen crawling down to where you're at, thus
starting a boss battle.

---------------------
**BOSS: Parasite Queen**

This boss isn't particularly hard, unless you absolutely suck at dodging, then
you'll have a problem. First of all, scan this creature. Not only will it add
it to the Creatures log, but it will reveal it's weak point! When its mouth is
open, shoot at it to cause more damage than just shooting it's body. Its only
attack is a weapon-grade toxic blast, which can easily be jumped/dodged. The
only way to do this battle correctly is to lock on. This boss, like the other
FAQs say, just gets you familiar with the strafing and lock-on techniques. So,
basically, shoot at it's mouth when it's open until it's dead. Seems simple,
right? Not very. A force field will surround it, with only two openings to
shoot through. You'll have to do this, otherwise you're shots will repel. Once
it's dead, a timer will start....
---------------------

You have 6 minutes to escape! You will be pointed in the right direction, so
head through the door, posthaste! Proceed through the hallways and the elevator
until you get back to the Biotech Research Area 1, except in the bottom floor.
You'll see a couple of Space Pirates shooting at the Parasite Queen that
escaped from stasis, and an explosion will blow away the Space Pirates (killing
them), and kill the Parasite Queen. That explosion caused the pathway above to
break, so climb up the debris to get back to the second floor. You'll see a few
Space Pirates hindering your progress out of here, so kill them and you'll see
a ventilation duct blow its cap off, so head through, because all doors here
are locked. You'll head through a series of ventilation ducts, with swarms of
Parasites coming out of openings. Just avoid them, if you spend your sweet time
getting rid of them, you won't have enough time to escape. Shoot at ventilation
doors to open them.

You'll eventually come to a room with two turrets: destroy them both, then you
can use the next door. Just keep going until you get to a shaft with a pusher.
It's hard to explain, but the shaft it's in seems red hot. Luckily, your Varia
Suit will protect you from heat. What you have to do here, is when the pusher
is revealing the exit out of this shaft, take it quickly, otherwise, it'll
block it up again. After you're past that, you'll head into the Biotech
Research Area 2, where you'll find Meta Ridley, and he'll escape. Now, in order
to get across here, you'll have to use your Grapple Beam to swing across the
Grapple points to the other side. (Press and hold L once near a Grapple point.)
Once here in this hallway, scan the computer conduit to deactivate the turrets
here, (neat, huh?) and scan the next one to activate the elevator, but as soon
as you do, an explosion will knock Samus into the wall so hard, that her Varia
Suit, Morph Ball, Charge Beam, Grapple Beam, and Missile Launcher will all
malfunction.....Not good.

Anyway, since it knocked you into the elevator, step into the hologram to head
up. Once it's at the top, head through the twists and corners in the hallway
until you reach the Air Lock, and head left. The right is blocked by fire,
besides, it leads back inside the frigate, so yeah... Head towards the door and
the room will depressurize, wasting a few seconds. After it's done, you can
open the door, and escape just in time. The whole place will start exploding,
and Meta Ridley will come flying towards Tallon IV, and Samus will head into
her ship and chase him, but she loses the tracking on him, thus ground-based
recon is required. You'll proceed to land in the Tallon Overworld, Samus
checking out the place, then you'll be prompted to save, so save.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 8

Creatures: 3
Parasite
Auto-Defense Turret
Parasite Queen

Pirate Logs: 1
Fall of Zebes

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 4
Map Station
Missile Ammo
Small Energy
Save Station

Total scans obtained: 8


