
**After School**

Spend time with Koromaru (Charm +1)

(Koromaru Linked Episode 1)

**Evening**

Get a Fortune Reading of your choice.

Speak to Fuuka and head to Tartarus, you may need to speak to her twice to get the option to go to Tartarus.

**Dark Hour**

You finally have your full team assembled, which opens up a lot of party combinations. I'd recommend starting today with the 3 new members, (Ken, Koromaru and Shinji) so you can use their Theurgy’s, if you’ve also used everyone else’s you will unlock:

- Achievement/Trophy: The Strength of Our Hearts (30/48)

With that out of the way you are now free to use whoever you want. Any combination is viable as you can use Makoto to cover any gaps, and items to cover any buffs or de-buffs you may be missing. A couple of suggestions though:

> Physical Beatdown, Bully the Shadows and Steal their Lunch Money  
> Makoto, Koromaru, Aigis and either Shinji/Junpei
>
> You will be making use of Koromaru’s Revolution to buff crit rate, and his second Theurgy which doubles the physical attack of all party members, works best when used with the other members Theurgy. You will mainly be using multi-target physical attacks to farm crits for high damage hits, make sure to also have a physical persona on Makoto as well. Aigis also gains access to attack and defence buffs for the entire party. Some downsides, crit hits can be a bit rng sometimes, you also don't have any de-buffs, debilitation spells or a main healer unless you use items or build personas on Makoto to cover these.
>
> Embrace the Harem  
> Makoto, Yukari, Mitsuru, Aigis
>
> Yukari will be silently judging you, Aigis will be taking notes, and Mitsuru will be leading it, but as Mitsuru said this formation is strategically sound. You have a good mix of offensive spells, healing spells, debilitation spells, buffs, de-buffs and physical attacks. The downsides are that both Mitsuru and Yukari are a bit squishy and can take a lot of damage, which is made worse by not having access to the attack down de-buff. Both Yukari and Aigis are also both weak to lightning which makes fighting that element tricky.
>
> Gender Equality  
> Makoto, Akihiko, Mitsuru and Yukari
>
> Run a 50/50 split of guys and girl. It gives you a lot of variation in offensive spells, debilitation spells, all 3 de-buffs and some buffs, probably the most versatile lineup, you won’t ever find yourself in an awkward situation, as you should always have something that will work. You are light in physical attacks though so make sure you have a good physical persona on Makoto.
>
> You can really make any combination work, and these are just a couple of suggestions.

> **Important! Important!**
> If you’ve been holding onto your incenses, now is the perfect time to use them on your party members. You can use them to cover weaknesses like Guard incenses on Yukari or aim to make them stronger in dealing damage. The only character I wouldn't use incense on is Shinji, he is so OP compared to every other party member atm, you really don’t need to use any on him.
>
> Elizabeth can at a random point from now on, tell you a little guy has found his way into Tartarus. It can be a little bit out of the way, but if you track him down you will get and rng amount of Twighlight Fragments.
>
> All fusions from this point onwards have been done with the Lovers Arcana. If you do any fusions without the Lovers Arcana, then certain fusions won't reach the same level as in the guide, which means some personas won't learn the same skills. This won't break the guide, but it may affect the fusion guide later on, as you may be missing skills to pass on.
>
> The Justice Major Arcana is one of the best in the game, it allows you to choose 2 cards from every shuffle time, making it much easier to get yen, skill cards etc.
>
> While the Justice Arcana is great, it can sometimes force you to pick a major arcana you don't want, as you can't cancel shuffle times in Reload. For this reason, I'd recommend saving often once you've gotten the Justice card, you can then load the previous save if this ever happens to you.

From now on its a good idea to teach Growth skill cards to any Heart item dropping personas that you have on you. It will allow them to get exp just by being in your stock. The only persona that you should have on you that drops a Heart Item is Take-Minakata, I'd replace Dekaja for Growth 2.

If you're using DLC personas, dismiss Shiisaa and summon Goemon. Replace his Invigorate 1 with Invigorate 2.

Return to the 91F and begin climbing Tartarus until you reach the 99F, for the first gatekeeper of the block. Defeat it, then open the chests and give the Carnage Knife to Koromaru.

Continue climbing until you reach the 105F for the next gatekeeper. Defeat it, then give the Insulated Tights to Yukari from the chest.

Continue climbing until you reach the 112F for the last gatekeeper of the block. Defeat it, then open the chests and give Aigis the Flash Grenade.

> On floors 109 to 116, you can get Kushi Mitama in shuffle times. If you grab it, it will give a ton of EXP to the one you have on you, allowing it to quickly hit level 32 and learn Magarula. You'll only have this on you if you're following the non DLC fusion guide.

Continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 117F for the next Monad Passage. Defeat the first shadow, then give the Champion Gloves to Akihiko. You have two more shadows to defeat, once both have been defeated, open the chest for the Devil Major Arcana.

> The Devil Arcana is one of the best cards in the game. It doubles the number of drops you get from shadows and breakable objects. This significantly increases the rate at which you can farm yen and gemstones, which is very important for endgame gear.

Once cleared, head up to the 118F for the border floor, open the chest and return to the entrance.

Hand in quests 45 and 47.

> If you want to farm more base materials and rare gems for gear crafting, you can run through the first section of Yabbashah and clear the Monad doors that spawn in this section.

> If you're using DLC personas, click [DLC Fusion Guide September.](dlc-fusion-guide-main-game#september)

You'll want to farm until your level 42, have at least 310k yen, and ideally the Lovers Major Arcana card. Once you're ready, save your game, enter the velvet room and register your personas. It's a good idea to save periodically due to fusion accidents.

| **Fusion Recipe**                          | **Skills to Pass On**                                        | **Skills to Keep**                          |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------- |
| Oni and Shiisaa Result: Virtue             | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 2 | Kouga, Maguru, Null Poison and Light Boost  |
| Baphomet and Kushi Mitama Result: Yakshini | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Invigorate 2 and Dodge Fire    | Doesn't max out skill list                  |
| Eligor and Take-Minakata Result: Loa       | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 2 | Zionga, Maehia, Marakunda and Survive Light |
| Power and Yakshini Result: King Frost      | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Invigorate 2 and Dodge Fire    | Bufula, Mabufula, Freeze Boost and Null Ice |

| **Fusion Recipe**                                   | **Skills to Pass on**                                        | **Skills to Keep**                                        |
| --------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| King Frost and Yamata-no-Orochi Result: Saki Mitama | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 2 | Diarama, Mediarama, Mabufu and Dekunda                    |
| Yatagarasu and Saki Mitama Result: Incubus          | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 2 | Eiga, Evil Touch, Spirit Drain and Stagnant Air           |
| Sarasvati and Genbu Result: Clotho                  | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Invigorate 2 and Mabaisudi     | Garula, Me Patra, Rakunda and Masukunda                   |
| Virtue and Loa Result: Dakini                       | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 2 | Getsu-ei, Herculean Strike, Strike Boost and High Counter |

| **Fusion Recipe**                             | **Skills to Pass On**                                        | **Skills to Keep**                                             |
| --------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Fuse Black Frost From the Special Fusion      | Mabufula, Auto Taraukaja, Auto Rakukaja, and Invigorate 2    | Bufudyne, Agidyne, Maeiga and Dark Boost                       |
| Lamia and Incubus Result: Hanuman             | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 2 | Getsu-ei, Blade of Fury, Fatal End and Shift Boost             |
| Black Frost and Take-Mikazuchi Result: Seiryu | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Bufudyne     | Mabufula, Mediarama Amrita Drop and Matarunda                  |
| Clotho and Virtue Result: Vasuki              | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 2 | Mahama, Neuro Slash, Hama Boost and Counterstrike              |
| Hanuman and Seiryu Result: Girimekhala        | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 2 | Cruel Attack, Heat Wave, Virus Breath and Marakunda            |
| Dakini and Girimekhala Result: Thoth          | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 2 | Zionga, Mazionga, Megido and Soul Shift                        |
| Vasuki and Kushi Mitama Result: Orobas        | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Garula       | Magarula, Masukukaja, Wind Boost and Resist Ice                |
| Black Frost and Queen Medb Result: Dominion   | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 2 | Makouga, Samarecarm, Infuriate and Light Boost                 |
| Fuse Flauros From the Special Fusion          | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Invigorate 2 and Revolution    | Herculean Strike, Auto Sukukaja, Crit Rate Boost and Apt Pupil |
| Dominion and Flauros Result: Ose              | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Crit Rate Boost and Apt Pupil  | Deathbound, Matarunda, Multi-Target Boost and Life Aid         |
| Hua Po and Thoth Result: Mothman              | Agilao, Mazionga, Auto Tarukaja and Auto Rakukaja            | Zionga, Elec Boost, Diizy Boost and Megido                     |

Hand in quests 35, 49 and 50 to Elizabeth, then do one final fusion.

| **Fusion Recipe**                        | **Skills to Pass On**                               | **Skills to Keep**         |
| ---------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Mothman and Yakshini Result: Thunderbird | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Zionga and Elec Boost | Doesn't max out skill list |

I unlocked this today, there is a good chance you’ve unlocked this before now if you’ve experimenting with skill mutations.

- Achievement/Trophy: Tempting Fate (31/48)

You should have fused every persona in the compendium up to level 39,

The personas you want on you are **Dominion, Thoth, Seiryu, Bathomet, Sarasvati, Queen Medb, Dakini, Clotho, Hanuman, Eligor, Orobas** and **Ose.**

You will unlock the King and I Theurgy  
(For Having Black Frost, King Frost and Jack Frost in the Compendium)

- Teach Dominion Growth 2, replace Infuriate. Once it reaches level 47 replace Growth 2 with Kougaon
- Teach Orobas, Invigorate 2, replace Masukukaja
- Teach Clotho Growth 2, replace Rakunda (Keep Growth 2 until it drops the Heart Item)
- Teach Growth 2 to Seiryu, replace Amirta Drop (Keep Growth 2 until it drops the Heart Item)

You'll want at least 110k after selling all your loot.

> **Important! Important!**
> Make sure you have personas from the follow arcana's before leaving **Hierophant, Justice, Temperence, Priestess, Lovers, Hermit, Fortune, Strength,** and **T\*\***ower,** these will be the social links that you're going to be working on. You'll want at least **110k\*\* after selling your loot.
>
> If you want to buy every shopping channel item, you will need at least 115k.
>
> If you want to work out what your loot is worth before you leave, then you can use [Loot and Breakable Objects Yabbashah Block 2](loot-and-breakable-objects#yabbashah-block-2-93f-118f), which has the name and sale values of everything.
>
> If you're not following the fusion guide, you may need to farm more yen, the amounts calculated here don't include any additional persona swapping that I don't specifically mention.\*\*


#### **9/5 Saturday**

**Evening**

Story Event

**Dark Hour**

It’s time for the next Major Arcana boss battle. Be careful having both Yukari and Aigis in your party for this one, they are both weak to lightning.

- Achievement/Trophy: Dodging Lightning (32/48)

