**After School**

Story Event (Magician Rank 1)

> You have just started your first social link, it’s imperative that whenever you hang out with a social link, you also have a persona of the same matching arcana. It gives a 1.51x multiplier and will help you to rank up, the only exception to this is **R\*\***ank\***\*1** and **R\*\***ank\***\*10**.
>
> Due to the tight schedule it's highly recommended to save every 4 days and use every save slot, this will allow you to back up your game by up to 2 months. You can also use the Rewind feature to rewind to any previous after school or evening timeslot for the last couple of days, allowing you to quickly correct any mistakes.
>
> If you don't get a rank up at the same time as in this guide, then usually it means you've either forgot a matching persona or accidently choose a different answer to what's in the guide during the previous rank. For this reason, I've included a detailed breakdown on when every rank up and social event happens, [Social Activities Breakdown.](social-stat-activities-breakdown#social-activities-breakdown) If you don't get a rank up when the guide says, then you can use this resource to quickly look up when the previous rank was and see what date you need to go back to.

**Evening**

Talk to Mitsuru to head to Tartarus.

**Dark Hour**

> To keep to the schedule, you're going to need to clear out each Tartarus block in a single evening. Which is easier said than done at this stage in the game, you don't have a lot of SP, and you have very few SP restorative items. Not only do you need to clear the Tartarus block, but you also need to make enough money to last you until your next Tartarus visit. This time you'll be aiming for 36k after selling all your loot. Yukari also ideally needs to hit level 11, it's the level at which she learns media, which is going to be very useful in your first major boss battle later in the month.

To make things easier for you I've got some tips:

- Make a fresh save before starting, so if anything goes wrong you can just reload
- Use manual commands of your party members
- Make sure to break all the glowing statues scattered around, they will include healing items and loot, and they will reset every time you return to a floor
- Take your time and make sure you are ambushing shadows to get an advantage. Getting an advantage at the start of battle is going to save you a lot of healing, especially on merciless, the enemies can hit very hard at this stage of the game
- Use healing items only, and not skills like Dia so you can save your SP for attacking
- Try to spread SP usage evenly between your party members
- Always try to knock down all the enemies, it will allow you to do all out attacks which will do massive damage and give you a guaranteed shuffle time if it’s the killing blow
- Flee from certain battles. In the later floors of this block, you will start getting Bettle’s in your encounters. They are just not worth fighting at this stage of the game and will drain your SP and items.
- Use your SP recovery drink, it’s what they are there for. You'll also get another 2x Snuff Souls exploring Tartarus tonight
- Reload if you’ve used more SP than you would have liked. You’ll waste a bunch learning what the shadows are weak to, making a mental note of what they are weak to, will mean you can be a lot more efficient with your SP after a reload
- When you get to a 2-way teleporter, make sure you come back to the start and save. They appear right before you face a gatekeeper mini boss
- If you need to, reload after fighting a gatekeeper, you will use the most SP and healing items on your first attempt. You'll be a lot more efficient on your second attempt once you know what does and doesn't work
- If you run out of SP recovery items, and you still haven’t reached the border floor or need to farm more yen. You can use the clock at the start, it's right by the velvet room. It costs 7 Twighlight Fragments but will fully restore your SP and health for all party members. You've got enough fragments to use it once and still have enough to open all the locked chests in this block

I've also included a video walkthrough of this first Tartarus block

Lastly the order you want to prioritize shuffle time items in is:

- Major Arcana
- Yen
- Either HP restore cards or EXP cards, depending on if you need healing or not
- Any skill cards that you come across

> **Important! Important!**
> Make sure you leave Tartarus tonight with at least 1x “Odd Morsel” in your inventory, you'll need it for a social link later. They are found in chests in this area of Tartarus.

Once you're ready, make your way up the stairs and start ascending Tartarus. While working your way up to 5F, try to grab the Angel and Pixie Persona's from a shuffle time. Take the 2-way teleporter at the 5F, return to the entrance and save your game, ideally on a separate slot. Return to the 5F and take on your first Gatekeeper mini boss. Once defeated, return to the entrance and enter the velvet room, make sure to register your personas and fuse:

> **VERY IMPORTANT! VERY IMPORTANT!**
> If you're planning on just using the fusion part of this guide, there is a couple of things you need to be aware off.
>
> There are numerous unlockable personas throughout the game, each time you unlock one of these personas, it causes changes in the possible fusions of various personas. If you don't have the exact same personas unlocked as this guide does at that point in the game, then some of the persona fusions can be different.
>
> You can just use the fusion part of the guide if you want, but please keep in mind that some of the fusions can be different. You'll have to work out how to fuse that persona yourself, I recommend using the persona 3 fusion calculator. It will show you all the possible fusions for that persona and you can pick the one that works for you. You do need to set it up though, as you need to tell it which personas you have unlocked and if you have DLC personas or not.
>
> https://aqiu384.github.io/megaten-fusion-tool/p3r/personas

| **Fusion Recipe**                    | **Skills to Pass On** |
| ------------------------------------ | --------------------- |
| Apsaras and Orpheus Result: Nekomata | Bufu                  |

- Achievement/Trophy: The First of Many (3/48)

> If you’re new to the persona series, it’s highly recommended to use the “talk” command and go through the tutorials. It will teach you all the ins and outs of fusing personas. Regarding “Skill Mutations” and “Fusion Accidents” I won’t be using them for this guide, the RNG nature of them makes them too unpredictable for a guide. They can be very powerful though, allowing you to get skills and personas way earlier than usual, or they can ruin a good skill or persona. For this reason, I'd recommend saving before doing any fusions.
>
> If you would like to do your own fusions, the link below leads to the fusion calculator. It can be a very useful resource showing you every skill a persona can learn, and exactly what fusions you need to do to pass on specific skills to a persona.
>
> https://aqiu384.github.io/megaten-fusion-tool/p3r/recipes

Return to the 5F and complete the shifting tutorial on the 6F

- Achievement/Trophy: There’s No “I” in “Team” (4/48)

Work your way up to the 11F, then save your game, enter the velvet room and register your personas. You can summon back any duplicate personas from the compendium.

> **Important! Important!**  
> The fusion guide for the first couple of months, is the same for both DLC personas and non DLC personas. I'll let you know when the fusion paths begin to diverge.

| **Fusion Recipe**                     | **Skills to Pass On** |
| ------------------------------------- | --------------------- |
| Angel and Nekomata Result: Omokaine   | Agi and Bufu          |
| Pixie and Nekomata Result: Ara Mitama | Bufu and Rakunda      |

Summon Angel from the compendium. You will now have access to the four basic elements (fire, ice, wind and lightning)

Return to the 11F and defeat the Gatekeeper. Open the two chests, you'll get 2 more Snuff Souls, and a Poison Arrow Bow for Yukari, which you'll want to equip.

> Gatekeeper floors always have nice loot on them, make sure to always open the chests once you beat a gatekeeper.
>
> Locked chests on non-boss floors can sometimes contain pieces of gear. These can be quite nice, but due to the RNG nature of the drops they won't be included in this guide. Any pieces you do get though, and you think are stronger than what you currently have, go ahead and equip them.

On the 12F you'll get introduced to “Rare Shadows”. They give a lot of EXP and the loot they drop sells for a decent amount too. Try to defeat it if you can, but they have high evasion, so your attacks are likely to miss.

- Achievement/Trophy: The Thrill of the Hunt (5/48)

Make your way to the 17F and defeat the Gatekeeper. Open the 3 chests, then give the armour and sword to Makoto.

Make your way up to the 22F, which is the border floor and is as far as you can go tonight.

> **Important! Important!**  
> Make sure to grab “Old Document 1” from the chest. You'll need it for a quest later.
>
> If you're running low on SP by this point, you can use the clock at the entrance to fully restore your SP for 7 Twighlight Fragments. You could also farm the lower floors as you will be strong enough to kill enemies with your basic attacks, you won't get guaranteed shuffle times, but you can keep farming yen without SP this way.

Yukari will most likely be level 10 at this point, so you'll need to get her to level 11 before you leave. The best way to get exp, is to go to the 11F and use LB/L1 and rapidly cycle through the floors until you get a rare shadow to spawn, they have a golden circle around them on the map. You should need around 4-6 of them to get Yukari to level 11, once you’ve done this farm until you have 37k on you, then return to the entrance and save.

> If any fusion accidents occur and you're not happy with the outcome, just reload your save and do the fusions again.

Enter the velvet room, register your personas and fuse:

| **Fusion Recipe**                         | **Skills to Pass on**      |
| ----------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Omoikane and Ara Mitama Result: Archangel | Zio, Bufu and Agi          |
| Angel and Pixie Result: Forenus           | Garu                       |
| Archangel and Forneus Result: Inugami     | Bufu, Garu and Zio         |
| Nekomata and Ara Mitama Result: Liliam    | Bufu, Bash and Power Slash |
| Orphes and Angel Result: Silky            | Garu                       |
| Silky and Apsaras Result: Jack Frost      | Garu                       |
| Jack Frost and Silky Result: Chimera      | N/A                        |
| Inugami and Chimera Result: Valkyrie      | Garu and Zio               |
| Valkyrie and Pixie Result: Onmoraki       | Bufu and Zio               |

> You can re-arrange the order of the skills for your personas and party members personas. Head to the persona screen then select View Skills/Affinity.
>
> For your party members, go to the stats screen, view their persona, then select view skills.

You should have fused every persona in the compendium up to level 10. Dismiss Liliam and summon back from the Compendium **Valkyrie, Inugami, Chimera, Jack Frost and Omoikane**, you should already have **Onmorak**i on you.

> There's an achievement for getting 10 personas from shuffle times. Hold off on summoning Jack Frost, this will leave a space in your stock to get random personas from shuffle times, you can then replace it with the next one that you get. Don't forget to summon Jack Frost once you've got the achievement though.

After this you'll want to farm until you have 36k yen. This includes your current yen and the yen you get from selling all your loot, you can also sell some of your items and duplicate accessories. Farming Rare Shadows can be a great way of increasing the yen of your loot, the Worldly Coin they drop sells for a good amount. You can also drop the difficulty to Peaceful when you go to sell your loot, you'll get more yen for your loot on lower difficulties. Just be careful if you're playing on merciless as you won't be to swap back.

Make a save before you leave Tartarus, then head to the police station the next day and sell all your loot. If you hit 36k you're good, if not you'll need to reload your save and farm some more.

While you are doing this, these 3 Achievements/Trophies should pop:

- Shrouded Assassin (50 ambushes) (6/48)
- Making the Dream Work (50 All-Out Attacks) (7/48)
- The Power of Choice (obtain 10 personas from shuffle time) (8/48)

> **Important! Important!**
> Make sure you have personas from the following arcana’s before leaving Tartarus. **Magician, Hierophant, Hermit, Chariot, Strength,** and **Hanged,** these are the social links you're going to be working on. Have at least **36\*\***k\*\* after summoning all required personas and selling all loot.
>
> If you want to buy all the shopping channel items, you'll need at least 46k
>
> If you want to work out what your loot is worth before you leave, then you can use [Loot and Breakable Objects Thebel](loot-and-breakable-objects#thebel-1f-22fbreakable-objects), which has the name and sale values of everything. The value of loot changes depending on the difficulty, values have been listed for each difficulty.
>
> If you're not following the fusion guide, you may need to farm more yen, the amounts calculated here don't include any additional persona swapping that I don't specifically mention.\*\*
