
**After School**

Spend time with Chihiro

- I’m all ears. (+2)
- Yeah, she’s in love (+3)
- (Justice Rank 5)
- Happy to help (+2)
- Hold her hand (+3)

**Evening**

Head to Club Escapade and speak to the Luxury Shopkeeper, then speak to Elizabeth.

> Black Quartz drops from the “Formidable Shadows” in the block of Tartarus you're about to explore, you can also get them from chests.
>
> If you have a spare 16k you can buy the Platinum Brooch from the luxury shopkeeper, then return to Elizabeth and use the talk command, you'll receive 2x Master Incense's. Highly optional.

Get a Fortune reading if you want to farm golden hands.

Talk To Fuuka to head to Tartarus.

**Dark Hour**

> For the first time you get to choose your party lineup, you can run any combination you want. If you drop Yukari, make sure you have a healing persona on Makoto. One thing to note with Mitsuru, her skills are very strong for this next Tartarus block, but she is the worst member to use in the next Major Arcana boss. I’d recommend using her to clear the shadows while working your way up to the gatekeepers, then swapping her out for the member left behind. That way everyone should be getting some exp, and you won’t have one member falling behind in levels.

Dismiss Nigi Mitama, and summon Piscas from the compendium, you'll need its dark spells.

> **Important! Important!**
> You'll want to get Naga to level 22 before doing the next batch of fusions, it's the level it learns Invigorate 1, you'll then be passing it onto other personas during fusions. Invigorate 1 can also drop as a rank 4 skill card, if you get one before Naga hits 22 you can just teach it to him instead. Rare shadows and gatekeepers give a lot of exp, having Naga equipped when you defeat these enemies will significantly reduce the farming you need to do.
>
> Rank 5 skill cards will start dropping today, which means you can get the boost skill cards. The boost cards (Fire, Ice, Wind boost etc) increase damage by 25%, which is quite nice. These are completely optional skill cards though, the fusion guide doesn't use them, only farm them if you want a bit of extra damage.
>
> If you want to take on the secret boss at the end of the game, then you may want to farm the Slash Boost skill card. If you have issues getting it to drop tonight you can return to these floors during future Tartarus visits, you'll have plenty of opportunities to farm the skill card before you need it.
>
> For a full breakdown of every skill card, what rank they drop at and a description of each one click [Skill Cards.](skill-cards)

> As you climb Tartarus tonight, you'll come across the missing people, they are all in the block you're about to do. You'll get a little animation showing the person when you enter the right floor, fully explore the floor to find them. When you find them, you can request an escort and the spare party member will escort them back to the entrance, so you can continue exploring.

Return to the 42F and begin climbing until you reach your first gatekeeper on the 47F. After defeating it open the chest and give the Boxing Shoes to Akihiko.

Continue until you reach the 54F for your next gatekeeper and defeat the gatekeeper. Open the chests, then give Onimaru Kunitsuna to Makoto, the Muscle Shirt to Yukari, and the All-Purpose Apron to Akihiko.

Continue climbing until you reach the 60F for the next gatekeeper. After defeating the gatekeeper, open the chests and give the Bold Bow to Yukari.

> On the 57F you will get introduced to Fuuka's jamming skill, which allows you to run around the floor without getting aggro from shadows, as long as you don't attack them. It only lasts for that floor or until you attack a shadow.

Keep working your way up to the 69F for the next border floor, open the chest for the Old Document 3. At some point tonight you should unlock:

- Achievement/Trophy: Extracurricular Excellence (22/48)
- Achievement/Trophy: The Fool’s Journey (23/48) (Get 10 Major Arcana from shuffle time)
- Achievement/Trophy: Birthday Present (24/48) (Got mine from Jack-o-Lantern)
- Achievement/Trophy: Shattered Plumes (25/48) (use 50 Twighlight Fragments)

Return to the entrance and hand in quests 16, 21 and 26 to Elizabeth, which unlocks:

- 32\. Treasure Hunting Milestone #3

> From this point onwards the fusion guide will diverge for DLC personas and non DLC personas. If you have DLC personas installed, click [DLC Fusion Guide July](dlc-fusion-guide-main-game#july)
>
> Make sure you don't swap fusion paths midway through from here on out. If you choose the non DLC path, you need to stay on it until the end of the game.

Farm until Naga is level 22, and you have 125k. I'd recommend floors 60 to 68, as that's where the rank 5 skill cards are, so you can collect those at the same time.

Once you're ready, save your game, enter the velvet room, register your personas and fuse:

| **Fusion Recipe**                                 | **Skills to Pass On**                                  | **Skills to Keep**                             |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
| Naga and Oberon Result: Shiisaa                   | Auto Tarukaja, Invigorate 1, Zio, and Mazio            | Doesn't max out skill list                     |
| Shissa and Slime Result: Take-Minakata            | Auto Tarukaja, Invigorate 1, Mazio and Assault Dive    | Zionga, Auto Rakukaja, Dekaja and Survive Dark |
| Principality and Take-Minakata Result: High Pixie | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Invigorate 1 and Dekaja  | Doesn't max out skill list                     |
| High Pixie and Nigi Mitama Result: Sandman        | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Invigorate 1 and Tarunda | Doesn't max out skill list                     |

| **Fusion Recipe**                                 | **Skills to Pass On**                                        | **Skills to Keep**                           |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------- |
| Fortuna and Take-Minakata Result: Hua Po          | Invigorate 1, Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja and Dekaja        | Agilao, Maragi, Fire Boost and Resist Freeze |
| Hua Po and Zouchouten Result: Mokoi               | Invigorate 1, Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja and Tarunda       | Doesn't max out its skills                   |
| Mokoi and Sandman Result: Leanan Sidhe            | Invigorate 1, Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja and Tarunda       | Doesn't max out its skills                   |
| Leanan Sidhe and High Pixie Result: Mitra         | Invigorate 1, Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja and Mabufu        | Doesn't max out its skills                   |
| Pisaca and Take-Minakata Result: Matador          | Invigorate 1, Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja and Eiha          | Doesn't max out its skills                   |
| Mokoi and Matador Result: Narcissus               | Invigorate 1, Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja and Auto Sukukaja | Doesnt max out its skills                    |
| Principality and Narcissus Result: Take Mikazuchi | Invigorate 1, Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja and Auto Sukukaja | Zionga, Mazionga, Getsu-ei, Fatal End        |

You should have fused every persona in the compendium up to level 23 now, excluding Pale Rider from the special fusion section.

> You’ve likely noticed that this fusion guide is heavily focused on passing on the auto skills, and a SP regen skill. There are a few reasons for this, firstly they are great skills, allowing you to do more damage, take less damage, be more accurate and help manage your SP. For a good 95% of fights these skills won't even expire and having them on all your personas means you don’t have to constantly switch to a specific persona at the end of every fight, allowing for a smoother gameplay experience. It also makes doing this fusion guide a lot simpler as it focuses on a handful of skills, with slight updates over time. When you get to the end game personas though, you'll be making a few more specialized ones, there are a lot of strong skills at endgame and there just aren't enough slots to do auto skills and these end game skills on the same persona.

You should be able to hand it quests 24, 33 and 46, which unlock:

- 32\. Treasure Hunting Milestone #3
- 48\. Personna Fusion Milestone #3
- 60\. Shadow Hunting Milestone #6

Elizabeth will now ask you to escort her to Iwatodai Station.

Dismiss Jack-o-Lantern and Rakshasa.

The personas you should have on you before leaving are **Mitra, Take-Mikazuchi, Shiisaa, Matador, Hua Po, High Pixie, Naga, Take-Minakata, Principality** and **Fortuna**. You'll want to have about **8\*\***0k\*\* after selling all your loot, you'll also get 40k reward from one the rescued people.

> You've already maxed the Emperor social link, but Take-Mikazuchi is there because he's going to be a very useful persona at the next full moon boss.

> **Important! Important!**
> Make sure you have personas from the following arcana before leaving: **Temperence, Strength, Magician, Hierophant, Priestess, Hermit, Hanged, Justice** and **Fortune,** these are going to be the social links that you'll be working on. You'll also need about **8\*\***0k\*\* after selling your loot.
>
> If you want to buy all shopping channel items, you will want 110k.
>
> If you want to work out what your loot is worth before you leave, then you can use [Loot and Breakable Objects Arqa Block 2](loot-and-breakable-objects#arqa-block-2-43f-68f), which has the name and sale values of everything.
>
> If you're not following the fusion guide, you may need to farm more yen, the amounts calculated here don't include any additional persona swapping that I don't specifically mention.\*\*


#### **7/3 Friday**

**Morning**

Answer: About Romance (Charm +1)

**After School**

Head to the police station to receive your rewards and sell your loot.

Go to the nurse's office to get a potent medicine.

> You can enter the nurse's office again for the strange medicine, but you've already maxed courage.

Spend time with Fuuka

- Sure (+3)
- Any
- (Priestess Rank 2)
- Sure thing (+3)

**Evening**

Go to Club Escapade and give a Black Quartz to the Luxury Shopkeeper, then buy the glasses for 10,000 yen.

Hand in quests 20 and 29 to Elizabeth.

Eat the Seafood Full Course at Wakatsu (Academics +2)

