**Daytime**

Vending machines refill today. While you're at the vending machines, buy 1 of each unique drink, you'll need them for a quest later. Don’t forget to buy all the usual SP drinks too.

- Cielo Mist, SoBay and Mad Bull (2F Dorm)
- Starvicks, Cylon Tea and Aguafeena (3F Dorm)
- Nastea, BauerBar, and Fountain Dew (3F Strip Mall)
- Definitely Lemonade, Happiness Water and 4biotic (Iwatodai Station)
- Dr. Salt, Moonkist and 1 Up (Port Island Station)

The Shopping channel has a Jelly Tasting Set: Includs 1x Antibiotic Gel and 5x Sappy Jelly for 3,980 Yen. Skip!

Play Innocent Sin Online

- Let’s plan our wedding, then (+3)
- (Hermit Rank 4) (Devil Flag)

**Evening**

> Elizabeth’s quests unlock tonight. They give some amazing items, yen, personas and are also one of your main sources of Twighlight Fragments. The other main source of Twighlight Fragments comes from levelling up social links.
>
> **Important! Important!**  
> You'll need to do Elizabeth's quests in order to follow this guide. Some of them give social stat points, which this guide uses. If you start skipping quests, you may find yourself not having access to quests at the correct time and not getting a social rank up when needed.

Go see Elizabeth to start her quests, she’s at the back of Paulownia Mall, and accept:

- 1\. Bring me a Muscle Drink
- 2\. Retrieve the first old document
- 3\. Shadow Hunting Milestone
- 4\. Treasure Hunting Milestone
- 5\. Create a Persona that’s level 13 or above
- 8\. Experiment with fortune telling
- 12\. Bring me pine resin

You should be able to turn in quest 2 and 3, which unlocks:

- 7\. Bring me a Juzunaru
- 14\. Retrieve the second old document
- 15\. Shadow Hunting Milestone #2

Accept these ones too. Elizabeth will then inform you that a change has happened within Tartarus, which means the next block of Tartarus is now available, you won’t be going back to Tartarus for a little bit though.

> The Shadow Hunting and Treasure Hunting quests might complete at different times for you, depending on how much you farm. I would try to keep up with the guide, as Elizabeth will ask you to escort her to various location, which unlock after completing a pre-determined number of quests. Elizabeth's hangouts sometimes give you additional persona fusions and will change some of the fusion recipes. You'll need these unlocked at the same time as the guide to be able to follow the fusion guide. Don't worry if you complete the Shadow and Treasure quests earlier than the guide though, all that happens is you just unlock the next one in the series.

> You'll see an ! mark over Paulownia Mall, it's just saying the fortune teller for quest 8 is here. You can ignore it for now as you don't need it until the next time you go to Tartarus.

Go to Aohige Pharmacy at Paulownia Mall and buy a Muscle Drink. Return to the dorm and speak to Yukari, then return to Elizabeth and hand in both quests. Afterwards you'll receive 3 more quests.

- 9\. I’d like to try all kinds of drinks
- 10\. I’d like to try a beef bowl
- 13\. Bring me a handheld game console

Accept all of these and return to the dorm and speak to Junpei. Return to Elizabeth and hand in quests 9 and 13. You'll need to select “Hand over the drinks” command to complete quest 13. You'll receive one more additional quest:

- 11\. Please prevail in the Big Eater Challenge

Accept the quest. Equip Pixel Vest on Makoto, then give Yukari, the Hothead Shirt and the Toy Bow.

Take on the Big Eater Challenge at Wilduck at the Strip Mall

- Look away from the burgers
- Eat without stopping
- Imagine something sour

(Academics, Charm and Courage +2)

(Courage Rank 3)
