**Daytime**

> You'll have some loot that you picked up from the last Major Arcana boss battle and the Theurgy tutorial, you can sell it today if you want a bit of extra yen.

Shopping Channel: The Father’s Day Gift, 1x Brand Watch, 2x Mega Protein for 3,980 Yen. Skip!

Vending machines refill today.

Elizabeth’s quests update today, accept:

- 18\. I’d like to be gifted a bouquet of flowers
- 20\. Bring me some potent medicine
- 21\. Retrieve the third old document
- 23\. Persona Fusion Milestone
- 24\. Create a Persona that’s level 23 or above
- 26.Bring me an Onimaru Kunitsuna
- 27\. Bring me a triangular sword
- 29\. I want to look fashionable

You should be able to hand in quests 18 and 23 in straight away, unlocking:

- 19\. I want Jack Frost Dolls
- 33\. Persona Fusion Milestone #2

> You'll see a ! at Paulownia Mall, it's for quest 29 which you can't do until you go to Tartarus next, so you can ignore it for now.

Return to the dorm and speak to Mitsuru, then return to Elizabeth and hand in quest 27. Unlocking:

- 28\. Bring me a protein not for pros

Head to the Crane Game by Game Parade and select “Play until you win a prize”, then repeat this 2 more times.

Return to the dorm and speak to Akihiko, then return to Elizabeth hand in quests 19 and 28.

Equip Gallant Sneakers on Yukari and the Spiked Bat on Junpei.

> You can use Rewind if you want to view Kenji's hangout.

Accept Kazushi’s invite

- You can get through this (+3)

**Evening**

Eat Seafood Full Course at Wakatsu Kitchen (Academics +2)
