**After School**

> I'd recommend having Siegfried as your equipped persona.

Head to the music room on the 1F.

(Ryoji Linked Episode 4)

(All stats increased by 1 on equipped persona)

**Evening**

Get whatever Fortune reading you want from Escapade.

Speak to Fuuka and head to Tartarus.

**Dark Hour**

> You'll need to defeat a Greedy Shadow so you can get a Gold Medal for a quest but tracking them down is highly rng. If you're struggling, Fuuka learns Tartarus Search at level 64 which guarantees a fight when you encounter one, it's still random when they spawn, but you won't have to do the mini game of choosing left or right.
>
> Siegfried can be gotten from shuffle times in this block. You can get a lot exp for him here, making him even more deadly.
>
> Time for 70's disco on a bad acid trip, you'll see what I mean in a minute.

If possible, try to get the Lovers, Devil and Justice/Star Arcana cards. Justice and Star both allow you to choose an extra card during shuffle time, so if you get both of them you can pick up to 3 cards. I find having one or the other is plenty though, but that's just personal preference.

Return to the 171F and continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 179F for the first gatekeeper of the block. Defeat it and open the chests, I'd give Mirage Sandals to Akihiko it you don't have Silent Sandals for him.

Continue climbing until you reach the184F for the next gatekeeper, defeat it and open the chests. I'd only give Koromaru Rai Kunimitsu, if you don't have Elementary Mask.

Continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 188F for the next gatekeeper, defeat it and open the chests. Give Yukari the Circe's Bow and give her Silent Sandals if you have one spare.

Continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 193F for the final gatekeeper of the block, defeat it and open the chests. Give Mitsuru the Water God Armour.

Continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 197F where you will find the next Monad Passage. Defeat the first shadow and open the chests, then equip Omega Spear on Ken. Defeat the second shadow and open the chest to get the Moon Major Arcana.

Head up to the 198F for the border floor, then open the chest and return the entrance.

Hand in quests 82, 89 and 88 (If you were able to defeat a Greedy Shadow)

> You can farm previous Tartarus blocks for Nomad Doors, if you want more base materials and gemstones. But the previous blocks drop lower quality base materials than what you were able to get tonight.

> If you're using DLC personas, then click [DLC Fusion Guide December 1st.](dlc-fusion-guide-main-game#december-1st)

Farm until you have at 550k. Lovers Arcana is recommended but not essential. When you're ready, save your game, enter the velvet room, register your personas and fuse:

| **Fusion Recipe**                       | **Skills to Pass On**                                             | **Skills to Keep**                                                                |
| --------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Siegfried and Chernobog Result: Pazuzu  | Auto Tarukaja, Maeiga, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                 | Eigaon, Poison Mist, Infuriate and Ailment Boost                                  |
| Jatayu and Hecatoncheires Result: Uriel | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Maraku, Life Aid and Enduring Soul            | Doesn't max out skill list                                                        |
| Ganesha and Titania Result: Mot         | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Maraku, Life Aid and Enduring Soul            | Megidola, Ghastly Wail, Evil Smile and Null Fear                                  |
| Throne and Uriel Result: Trumpeter      | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Maraku, Life Aid and Enduring Soul            | Doesn't max out skill list                                                        |
| Hariti and Pazuzu Result: Bishamonten   | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Maraku, Life Aid and Enduring Soul            | Primal Force, Myriad Arrows, Crit Rate amp and Pierce Boost                       |
| Suzaku and Trumpeter Result: Gabriel    | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Maraku, Life Aid and Enduring Soul            | Doesn't max out skills                                                            |
| Mot and Gabriel Result: Raphael         | Megidola, Auto Maraku, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                 | Tempest Slash, Magarudyne, Mediarama and Angelic Grace                            |
| Succubus and Raphael Result: Garuda     | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Maraku, Life Aid and Enduring Soul            | Garudyne, Magarudyne, Tentarafoo and Amrita Shower                                |
| Parvati and Garuda Result: Barong       | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Maraku, Life Aid and Enduring Soul            | Ziodyne, Maziodyne, Elec Boost, Drain Elec and Auto Masuku (Delete Auto Tarukaja) |
| Bishamonten and Barong Result: Kali     | Auto Maraku, Auto Masuku, Life Aid and Enduring Soul              | Heat Wave, Deathbound, Charge and High Counter                                    |
| Fuse Pale Rider From the Special Fusion | Eiha, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 2               | Eiga, Fatal End, Null Fear and Survive Light                                      |
| Fuse Mada From the Special Fusion       | Auto Maraku, Life Aid, Enduring Soul, Shfit Boost and Null Pierce | Agidyne, Maragidyne, and Null Wind                                                |
| Fuse Norn From the Special Fusion       | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja, Life Aid, and Endure | Panta Rhei, Magarudyne, Wind Amp and Invigorate 3 (delete Auto Tarukaja)          |

> You've started dropping Auto Tarukaja, which will be replaced by Power Transmitter (Attack up for the whole party), when you next upgrade your gear. You'll soon be working on getting the Spell Master ability.

You can dismiss Pale Rider.

> This is something optional you can do tonight, if you're level 69 or don't mind grinding to level 69. You can do one more fusion, which is to fuse Loki (Not the DLC one).
>
> It has the next skill that you want, which is Spell Master, and it learns it at level 76. The advantage of doing it now, is that you can make use of the Lovers Arcana that is active atm, to get as much exp as possible, and you can start levelling it straight away the next time you go to Tartarus.
>
> The other way is just level to 69 naturally in the next Tartarus block, then fuse it and then level it to 76.
>
> Which way is going to be best, depends on how close to level 69 you currently are. If you're close you'll save time fusing it now, if you've got a few levels still to go, then it will probably take longer grinding to level 69 now, rather than just doing everything in the next Tartarus block.
>
> If you do decide to do it now, here's the fusion recipe:
>
> | **Fusion Recipe**              | **Skills to Pass on**                   | **Skills to Keep**                                                                                                  |
> | ------------------------------ | --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | Kali and Nidhoggr Result: Loki | Auto Maraku, Life aid and Enduring Soul | Agidyne, Bufudyne, Ziodyne, Garudyne and Growth 3 (Use skill card for Growth 3, replace Growth 3 with Spell Master) |

The personas you should have on you before leaving are **Nidhoggr,** **Titania, Norn, Mada, Gabriel, Chernobog, Mishaguji, Parvati, Garuda, Siegried,** **Throne** and **Kali (or Loki)**. You will want to have **250k** after selling your loot.

- Teach Growth 3 to Gabriel, replace Auto Tarukaja

> **Important! Important!**
> Make sure you have personas from the following arcana's **Lovers, Fortune, Hanged, Moon, Hierophant, Priestess, Star,** these are going to be the social links that you're going to be working on next**.** You'll want to have **250K** after selling you loot.
>
> If you want to buy all shopping channel items, you will want at least 415K.
>
> If you want to work out what your loot is worth before you leave, then you can use [Loot and Breakable Objects Harabah Block 1](loot-and-breakable-objects#harabah-block-1-173f-198f), which has the name and sale values of everything.
>
> If you're not following the fusion guide, you may need to farm more yen, the amounts calculated here don't include any additional persona swapping that I don't specifically mention.\*\*

#### **12/2 Wednesday**

**After School**

Sell your loot and collect your rewards.

Spend time with Mitsuru

- Why not give it a try? (+1)
- Are you happy? (+3)
- Maybe you're anxious (+1)
- (Empress Rank 3)
- I heard nothing (+1)

**Evening**

Work at Chagall Cafe (Charm, Courage +1 and 4,800 yen)

- Achievement/Trophy: The Grindset Mindset (48,300/50,000)

**Dark Hour**

Story Event
