
**After School**

Elizabeth’s quests update today, accept:

- 70\. Retrieve the seventh old document
- 73\. Bring me a Mikazuki Munechika
- 74\. I’d like to try sushi
- 75\. Bring me a Sengoku-era helm
- 76\. Bring me a glasses wipe

Head to the shrine and speak to Inari (Requires Academics Rank Unknown)

Head to the Faculty Office at school (Academics +1)

Head to the Nurse’s Office (Supplemental Lesson 1 of 3)

Spend time at Bookworms

- Please don’t fight (+3)
- Any
- (Hierophant Rank 6)

**Evening**

Head to Manga Star (Net Cafe) and buy everything.

> Umiushi Beef Bowl has the seasonal item, Autumn Beef Bowl for sale.

The Luxury Shopkeeper in Club Escapade now has most gemstones for sale, you can exchange or upgrade these at the antiques shop. I'd only do this if you have extra yen though, buying and upgrading gemstones is expensive. If you want to upgrade gemstone it's under the Trade Items section.

Heat to the antiques shop and upgrade your gear.

|              | **Weapon**         | **Armor**          | **Footwear**   | **Acessory**                     |
| ------------ | ------------------ | ------------------ | -------------- | -------------------------------- |
| **Makoto**   | Outenta Mitsuyo    | Tigerhide Belt     | Silent Sandals | Mega Master Band                 |
| **Yukari**   | Bow of Affection   | Rangda Robe        | Silent Sandals | Yellow Shawl or Vayu Bracers     |
| **Junpei**   | Mikazuki Munechika | Samue of the Tengu | Silent Sandals | Power Enhancer                   |
| **Akihiko**  | Kaiser Knuckes     | Tigerhide Belt     | Silent Sandals | Blue Shawl or Indra Bracers      |
| **Mitsuru**  | Ice Saber          | Rangda Robe        | Silent Sandals | Red Shawl or Varna Bracers       |
| **Aigis**    | Blast Magnum       | Achilles Guard     | Ergotite Legs  | Yellow Bracers or Pierce Bracers |
| **Koromaru** | Elementary Mask    | Powered Dog Suit   | Bare Paws      | Dark Bracers                     |
| **Ken**      | Ote-gine           | Tigerhide Belt     | Silent Sandals | Light Bracers                    |

For some allies you can choose between protecting their weakness or going for damage. I prefer protecting their weaknesses, I find it makes certain fights easier than raw damage, but either approach can work.

> If you have the gemstones spare, grab the Growth 3 card. Don't stress if you don't though, you can keep using Growth 2 instead. Make 5x copies of whichever one you are using. You can buy Emeralds in Club Escapade, they are 10k each though.
>
> If you have some spare Amethyst gems it might be worth trading for some Dekaja Gems and Dekunda Gems, they can be useful against enemies that buff or de-buff a lot. 3 to 5 of each should be plenty, you can also buy Amethyst from Club Escapade for 5k.

Use Sage Brain Training on the Shared Computer (Academics +2)

**Dark Hour**

(Death Rank 8)

