
**  
Morning**

Stay Awake (Academics +1)

**After School**

> How many responses you get in Yukari's next social link, changes depending on what responses you choose. For this reason, I'd recommend choosing the same options here, so there isn't any confusion.

Spend Time with Yukari

- Look around
- Go look for her
- Any
- Any
- (Lovers Rank 5)
- I’m sorry (+3)

**Evening**

Head to Club Escapade and buy Assassin Site Note and History Website Note from the Suspicious Man.

Get a Fortune reading of your choice.

Speak to Fuuka and head to Tartarus.

**Dark Hour**

> **Important! Important!**
> Even though you've been doing all search and rescues, make sure you don’t miss any tonight. You will permanently lock yourself out of a social link if you do.

You now have access to the 3 best Major Arcana Cards, Lovers, Justice, and Devil. Lovers will boost the fusion bonus of your social links, while Justice allows you to choose 2 cards from every shuffle time, and the Devil will double the number of items you get from breaking objects and enemy drops. While none of these are essential, they can save you a lot of time in levelling personas and in farming for skill cards, yen, exp, etc.

> **Important! Important!**
> If you've been following the fusion guide, make sure Ose has learned Life Aid and Hanuman has learned Endure, before doing the next batch of fusions. Ose should have reached a high enough level to learn Life Aid, if you had the Lovers Arcana active when you fused him.
>
> Hanuman cards are in shuffle times in this next section, so it should be easy to get the exp needed for him. You can also teach him Growth 2; I'd replace Fatal End.
>
> Rank 8 skill cards start dropping tonight, which means you can start getting Resist skill cards, these are great as they can turn an elemental weakness into a strength on a persona. These have a very low drop rate though, and you'll be able to get them from the Antiques shop later on in the game, so I wouldn't go out of your way to farm them, just grab any that appear in shuffle times.
>
> Resist Dark and Resist Light don't appear in the antiques shop, if you want these cards you will have to farm them, highly optional.

> You'll get introduced to the Dark Zone tonight. It's an area that's completely pitch black, forcing you to use the mini map to navigate. It's harder for you to see shadows, but it's also harder for them to see you. The main feature of these floors is that all breakable objects are Twighlight Fragment statues. If you have the Devil Arcana active you can collect a decent amount of Twighlight Fragments each time you come across a Dark Zone.
>
> Outside of the tutorial one, they are random spawns. Unfortunately, the tutorial one doesn't count for the achievement, but the next time you encounter it, you will unlock:
>
> - Achievement/Trophy: The Horror of the Shade (33/48)
>
> You should also at some point today unlock:
>
> - Achievement/Trophy: Glimpse of the Depths (34/48) (Conquer 10 Monad doors)

Return to the 117F and continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 125F, for your next back-to-back gatekeeper fights. Defeat them, then open the chests, equip Makoto with the Ballistic Vest and Ken with the Warding Shoes.

> In the next section you'll get introduced to a new type of shadow, the Greedy Shadow. They go around stealing all the loot on the floor and you end up in a mini game, trying to chase them down. You have 3x choices of either left or right, if you guess right all three times, then you catch it and get to fight it. They give a lot of exp and loot when defeated. Normally it's luck of the draw if you guess the right direction or not, but the tutorial one seems like it's guaranteed.
>
> You'll hit much higher numbers against Greedy Shadows so you should be able to do over 999 damage against them. They're weak to strike, any strong strike attack like Herculean Strike will easily do this.
>
> - Achievement/Trophy: Get a Load of Those Numbers (35/48)

Continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 132F for the next gatekeeper, after defeating it, open the chests. I'd only give Shinjiro, Gaea's Grave, if you don't already have Charun's Hammer. The Auto Rebellion on Charun's Hammer is better than the slightly higher attack stat on Gaea's Grace.

Continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 136F for the next gatekeeper, defeat it and open the chests, then give the Fiery Vest to Akihiko.

Continue climbing Tartarus until you hit the 143F, defeat the final gatekeeper of the block, then open the chests and equip Ken with Ote-gine.

The Monad passage is also on the 143F, defeat the first enemy and give the Grand Slasher to Koromaru. After defeating the second and third enemies, open the chest to get the Tower Arcana card.

Head up to the 144F for the border floor, open the chest and return to the entrance.

Hand in quests 59, 61, 64 and 65.

Elizabeth will now ask you to escort her to Gekkoukan.

> You can return to previous Tartarus blocks and farm the Monad doors for the base materials and gemstones, but the lower blocks drop lower quality base materials than what you were able to get tonight.

> If you're using DLC personas click, [DLC Fusion Guide October 1st.](dlc-fusion-guide-main-game#october-1st)

You'll want to farm until you have 360k, Ose has learned Life Aid and Hanuman has learned Endure. Lovers Arcana is recommended but not essential, some skills might not match up if you decide to fuse without the Lovers Arcana.

When you're ready, save your game, enter the Velvet room, register your personas and fuse:

| **Fusion Recipe**                        | **Skills to Pass On**                                     | **Skills to Keep**                                     |
| ---------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| Baphomet and Eligor Result: Anubis       | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja Auto Sukukaja and Eiga       | Doesn't max out skill list                             |
| Ose and Hanuman Result: Samael           | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Life Aid and Endure         | Maeiga, Megido Masukunda and Dekunda                   |
| Samael and Kushi Mitama Result: Kaiwan   | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Life Aid and Endure         | Eerie Sound, Evil Smile, Virus Breath and Spirit Drain |
| Sarasvati and Kaiwan Result: Naga Raja   | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Life Aid and Endure         | Mazionga, Cruel Attack, Null Pierce and Revolution     |
| Thoth and Naga Raja Result: White Rider  | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Life Aid and Endure         | Arrow Rain, Poison Arrow, Pierce Boost and Null Fear   |
| Thoth and White Rider Result: Lachesis   | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Life Aid and Endure         | Magarula, Masukukaja, Mediarama and Soul Chain         |
| Anubis and Lachesis Result: Quetzalcoatl | Auto Tarukaja, Life Aid Endure and Magarula               | Doesn't Max out its skills                             |
| Seiryu and Clotho Result: Cu Chulainn    | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Matarunda, and Invigorate 2 | Torrent Shot, Matarukaja Dekaja and Charge             |

Leave and re-enter the velvet room, you'll get another discount on summoning personas for having 50% of the compendium.

| **Fusion Recipe**                            | **Skills to Pass On**                                                         | **Skills to Keep**                                                                        |
| -------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Hanuman and Kaiwan Result: Ganga             | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Life Aid, and Endure                            | Neuro Slash, Diarama, Tentarafoo and Confuse Boost                                        |
| Naga Raja and Queen Medb Result: Shiki-Ouji  | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja Life Aid and Endure                              | Kouga, Torrent Shot Dekaja and Matarukaja                                                 |
| Dakini and Shiki-Ouji Result: Titania        | Matarukaja, Auto Tarukaja, Life Aid and Endure                                | Bufudyne, Mabufula Concentrate and Freeze Boost                                           |
| Anubis and White Rider Result: Succubs       | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja Life Aid and Endure                              | Maeiga, Maragion, Spirit Drain and Drain Abillity                                         |
| Naga Raja and Thunderbird Result: Okuninushi | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Life Aid and Endure                             | Agidyne, Maragion, Getsu-ei and Deathbound                                                |
| Quetzalcoatl and Ganga Result: Mishaguji     | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Life Aid and Endure                             | Ziodyne, Mazionga Vile Assault and Deathbound                                             |
| Seiryu and Mishaguji Result: Kurama Tengu    | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Life Aid and Endure                             | Garudyne, Magarula, Masukunda and Null Dizzy                                              |
| Fuse Parvati From the Special Fusion         | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakuaja, Auto Sukukaja, Anti-Fire Master and Inviograte 2 | Diarama, Mediarama, Mabaisudi and Divinge Grace (Replace Auto Sukukaja with Divine Grace) |

You should have every fused persona up to level 46 now.

Hand in quest 62 to Elizabeth, which unlocks:

- Fusion Series #6: Strength, Siegried

The personas you should have on are **Titania, White Rider, Dominion, Mishaguji, Succubus, Kurama Tengu, Okuninushi, Lachesis, Cu Chulainn, Kaiwan, Grimekhala,** and **Parvati**

- Teach Succubus Growth 2, replace Maragion. Replace Growth 2 with Eigaon when Succubus learns it
- Teach Growth 2 to Lachesis, replace Mediarama
- Teach Cu Chulainn Growth 2, replace Torrent Shot
- Teach Growth 2 to Titania, replace Matarukaja.

> As you can see, you've replaced Invigorate 2 with Life Aid, it restores 8% SP/HP after every fight, it's a nice upgrade over Invigorate 2 and because it's % based, it gets better the more you level up. You've also replaced Auto Sukukaja with Endure. Endure is just a great skill to have in case you get one tapped by an insta-kill skill, or you get smacked down on your weakness and can save you from a game over screen. You'll also soon be getting some gear that has Auto Sukukaja on it.

You'll want at least **150k** after selling all your loot. You'll also get 100k reward from a rescued person tomorrow.

> **Important! Important!**
> Make sure you have personas from the following arcana’s for the next batch of social links before leaving: **Lovers, Strength, Justice, Hierophant, Priestess, Temperence, Fortune, Tower, Star,** and **Moon,** these are going to be the social links that you'll be working on. You will want at least **150k** after selling your loot.
>
> If you want to buy all shopping channel items, you will need at least 200k.
>
> If you want to work out what your loot is worth before you leave, then you can use [Loot and Breakable Objects Tziah Block 1](loot-and-breakable-objects#tziah-block-1-119f-144fbreakable-objects), which has the name and sale values of everything.
>
> If you're not following the fusion guide, you may need to farm more yen, the amounts calculated here don't include any additional persona swapping that I don't specifically mention.\*\*


#### **10/2 Friday**

**After School**

Sell your loot and pick up your rewards.

Spend time with Elizabeth, then hand in quest 80.

Spend time with Fuuka

- Any
- Any
- That’s messed up (+1)
- (Priestess Rank 7)
- Is that the only reason? (Romance Flag)

> A romance flag is a response that you need to choose in order to have the option to romance a character at a later date. Most romance flags are usually also the responses that give the most points, this one is one of the few that's not the case.
>
> Even if you don't plan on romancing Fuuka, I'd recommend picking the romance flag. Your dialogue options will change to what's in the guide if you don't.

**Evening**

Watch a DVD with Ken (Courage +1)

