
**Daytime**

Shopping channel: Beginner’s home cooking set has 1x All-Purpose Apron and 2x Umagi water for 5,980 Yen. Buy!

Vending machine refills today.

Accept Kenji’s invite

- I’m pretty picky (+3)

**Evening**

Head to club Escapade and get a fortune reading for 3,000 yen, you'll need it for a quest.

Talk to Mitsuru to go to Tartarus.

**Dark Hour**

> **Important! Important!**
> If you’re playing the game on a higher difficulty and want to keep the difficulty up, be very careful farming golden hands and getting exp cards from shuffle times, from this point onwards. Both of these can make it very easy to over-level and remove any difficulty from the game, if you don’t care about over levelling then farm away.
>
> Akihiko is back, so you now have a party of 4. Between having a 4th member and being at a much higher level than the last time you went to Tartarus, you'll have a lot more SP. If you’ve been keeping up with the vending machines and quests, then you should also have a decent amount of SP restorative items too. The enemies are stronger this time, so you'll still need to manage your SP. I’d recommend the same tactics as before; remember there’s always the grand clock at the start if you run out of SP restorative items.
>
> Since the game first game out, Atlus has released an update that increases the amount of Twilight Fragments you get from your initial social links. You can use your Twilight Fragments more freely now.

> From tonight onwards, you don't want to be collecting personas from shuffle times unless I specifically say. This is because the personas you get from shuffle times only have a few skills on them, meaning you won't be able to pass on the same number of skills as in the guide.
>
> You also run the risk of overwriting that persona in the compendium when you go to register your personas, deleting all the skills you've passed to it and potentially messing up the fusion guide.

Some of the locked chests can contain some nice pieces of gear, unfortunately the drops are random. Any pieces you do get, I’d recommend giving it to whoever has the weakest gear at the time. Somewhere along the line you should unlock:

- Achievement/Trophy: Briefcase Burglar (opened 50 chests) (11/48)

> Archangel has Kouha for light weak enemies.

When you're ready, head to the teleporter and resume from the 21F, continue working your way up to 28F for the first gatekeeper fight of the block, then return to the entrance and save your game.

Take on the gatekeeper, after defeating it continue working your way up Tartarus until you reach 34F.

> You'll be introduced to the “Formidable Shadow” on the 30F. They are significantly stronger than other enemies in the area so they can quickly decimate your party on higher difficulties. They do give some nice exp and tend to drop some of the rarer loot you need for gear crafting later on in the game.

Save your game, have at least 15k then return to the velvet room, register your personas and fuse:

| **Fusion Recipe**                        | **Skills to Pass On**            |
| ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Inugami and Archangel Result: Unicorn    | Bufu, Garu, Agi and Zio          |
| Onmoraki and Inugami Result: Nigi Mitama | Bufu, Poisma and Tarunda         |
| Omoikane amd Archangel Result: Slime     | Single Shot, Kouha, Bufu and Agi |
| Jack Frost and Slime Result: Berith      | Pulinpa, Evil Touch and Bash     |
| Unicorn and Berith Result: Tam Lin       | Agi, Kouha, Bufu and Single Shot |

Summon back Berith.

Afterwards hand in quests 4, 5, 8 and 15, which unlocks four more:

- 6\. Create a Persona with Kouha
- 16\. Treasure Hunting Milestone #2
- 17\. Fusion Series #1: Emperor, Oberon
- 22\. Shadow Hunting Milestone #3

You should be able to hand in number 6 straight away, then accept the rest.

Return to the 34F and take on the next gatekeeper, which turns out to be your first back-to-back gatekeeper fights. Once you’ve beaten them, open the chests to get a Juzumaru for Junpei.

Make your way up to the 42F and face the final gatekeeper of this block. Recommend saving beforehand, this gatekeeper is by far the strongest you've faced so far. If you want help defeating this shadow, highlight the following box.

> This fight can be a nightmare if you don't have a proper strategy for it. It identifies everyone's weakness and goes after them relentlessly. On merciless it can easily one shot any party member from full health, get a one more and wipe the entire party out in quick succession.
>
> To defeat this gatekeeper, you'll want to use Akihiko's Tarunda to keep its attack down, and use Poisma on Nigi Mitama, it might take a few tries but keep going till it lands. Junpei and Yukari will guard every single turn, and Akihiko will guard every turn he's not using Tarunda. Once you've got Poisma to land, guard with Makoto as well, the poison will rapidly deplete the shadows hp, while guarding and Tarunda will massively reduce the damage it does to your party. Poison can't kill a shadow though, so once its hp is nearly depleted, hit it with any attack to finish it off.

Afterwards make your way to the 44F and grab “Old Document 2” from the chest, then return to the entrance to hand in quests 7 and 14.

You'll likely need to do more farming for yen, as you have another batch of persona fusion coming up and you still need yen for your social activities for the coming weeks.

You'll want about 70k before doing the next batch of fusions. Once you've farmed it, save your game, register your personas and fuse:

| **Fusion Recipe**                                    | **Skills to Pass on**                                                    |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Nigi Mitama and Slime Result: Zouchouten             | Single Shot, Media, Baisudi, and Tarunda. Replace Bash with Assault Dive |
| Archangel and Zouchouten Result: Jack-o'-Lantern     | Auto Tarukaja, Zio, Kouha and Media                                      |
| Valkyrie and Jack-o'-Lantern Result: Oberon          | Auto Tarukaja, Kouha, Agi and Maragi                                     |
| Berith and Oberon Result: Rakahasa                   | Auro Tarukaja, Power Slash, Bash and Single Shot                         |
| Nigi Mitama and Rakshasa Result: Gurulu              | Auto Tarukaja, Bufu, Garu and Poisma                                     |
| Unicorn and Gurulu Result: Neko Shogun               | Auto Tarukaja, Kouha, Eiha and Poisma                                    |
| Tam Lin and Rakshasa Result: Naga                    | Auto Tarukaja, Fatal End Bash and Vaccum Slash                           |
| Jack-o'-Lantern and Nigi Mitama Result: Principality | Auto Tarukaja, Media, Agi and Maragi                                     |
| Oberon and Inugami Result: Pisaca                    | Auto Tarukaja, Foul Breath Bufu and Poisma                               |

> Auto Tarukaja is the first of the main skills you'll be focusing on in this guide. It gives attack up for the first 3 turns in every fight, as long as it's on the starting persona.

You should now have fused every persona up to level 17 in the compendium, except Fortuna from the Special Fusion section. Fill your stock with **Oberon, Zouchouten, Naga, Principality, Jack-o'-Lantern, Nigi Mitama, Inugami** and **Rakshasa,** you'll need to dismiss Neko Shogun, Pisaca and Chimera. You can now hand in quests 17 and 22 to Elizabeth now, unlocking two more:

- 25\. Fusion Series #2: Chariot, Mithras
- 31\. Shadow Hunting Milestone #4

You have completed enough quests that Elizabeth will ask you to show her around Paulownia Mall, you'll need to speak to her again to trigger it.

- 77\. I’d Like to walk around Paulownia Mall

You'll need at least 60k after selling your loot, you'll likely need around 10-20K on you, save your game before leaving Tartarus. Sell your loot the next day, and if you have less than 60k, then you'll need to reload and farm some more, remember you can sell items and old gear if you're a little short. You can also drop the difficulty to peaceful to increase the value of your loot.

> **Important! Important!**
> Make sure you have personas from the following arcana's before leaving Tartarus tonight. **Emperor, Chariot, Hermit, Justice, Magician, Temperence, Hanged and Strength,** these are the social links you're going to be working on. You'll also need at least **60\*\***k\*\* after selling all your loot.
>
> If you want to buy all the shopping channel items, you'll need at least 75k
>
> If you want to work out what your loot is worth before you leave, then you can use [Loot and Breakable Objects Arqa Block 1](loot-and-breakable-objects#arqa-block-1-23f-42f), which has the name and sale values of everything. The value of your loot depends on the difficulty you're playing on, values are listed for each difficulty.
>
> If you're not following the fusion guide, you may need to farm more yen, the amounts calculated here don't include any additional persona swapping that I don't specifically mention.\*\*

