**Daytime**

Elizabeth’s Quests update today, accept:

- 45\. Retrieve the fifth old document
- 49\. Create a Persona that’s level 38 or above
- 50\. Perform King and I
- 51\. Bring me an Outenta Mitsuyo
- 52\. I’d like to try a home-cooked meal
- 54\. Attempt a hundred shrine visits
- 55\. I’d like to see proof of a bond
- 56\. Look for a drink with my name
- 57\. I’d like to try Aojiru
- 58\. I wish to become a straw millionaire

You should be able to hand in quests 52, 55 and maybe 51, depending on if you got the sword from the antique shop yet. Don’t worry if you haven’t, I also didn't have it at this point. You'll need to select the command “Hand over your cooking” to hand in quest 52. This unlocks:

- 53\. I’d like to see a mysterious potato

Select the command “Hand over the potato” to hand in the quest.

Head to the Pharmacy and ask, “I’d like some aojiru”, then head into the antiques shop.

Grab 10x Soul Spinach Sprout from Rafflesia.

Head to the Station outskirts and speak to the Fierce-Looking Delinquent, then head into Que Sera Sera that's to the left of him and enter (Requires Charm Rank Unknown)

Talk to the Flustered Student in Port Island Station, then give the toy to the Cat-Loving boy at the Strip Mall.

Return to Elizabeth and hand in quests 56 and 58.

> You now have a AS Generic Material, if you have enough gemstones get the Phalanx Shell for Aigis.

Head to the Shrine and check the Monetary Offering.

Spend time with Maiko

- Any
- Any
- (Hanged Rank 7)

**Evening**

Watch a DVD with Akihiko (Courage +1)
