
**Afternoon**

Stay awake (Academics +1)

**After School**

Leave the school and head to Paulownia Mall. You'll be introduced to where you can buy your gear and be given 5,000 yen. Don’t buy anything though, you'll need every bit of yen for social stat raises.

| **Gear**      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Weapons**   | The attack stat on a weapon doesn't matter too much in this game, especially once you've levelled up a bit, as you'll mainly be using personas to attack. The suggested weapons will mainly be picked due to their sub-effects. |
| **Armour**    | Is the gear you'll want to be focusing on first as it directly affects how much damage you take and is really the only gear you'll be buying to begin with.                                                                     |
| **Footwear**  | Evasion is very RNG at the start of the game, so like weapons, footwear will mainly be picked for their sub effects.                                                                                                            |
| **Accessory** | These come with a lot of variety and can be very useful, but not much is available at the start of the game.                                                                                                                    |

> Return to the school and go to the nurse’s office, it’s right by the faculty office.  
> Drink the strange medicine (Courage +1)

Twighlight Fragments have now spawned around various locations:

- The first is directly to your left as you come out of the nurse’s office
- Then turn around and return to the entrance and look left. There’s another one by the red and blue pillars at the back
- Then run up the stairs to your right, immediately look right and there’s one on the sinks
- Turn around and run down the corridor until you get to the opposite set of stairs and go up to the roof. There's one on the bench in the back right hand corner
- Take the stairs down from the roof to the ground floor, then head right and go outside, then left into the courtyard with the tree. There’s another one on the bench to the left of the tree
- Instead of turning left into the courtyard, follow the corridor straight and go through the door into the gym hallway, the next on is on the floor to your left
- Return to the school entranceway, and the next one is on your right (MC Left) as you head out towards the main gate, just behind a lamppost
- Go to Port Island Station and then Station Outskirts, the next one is by some rubbish bags on the left
- Turn around and go into Port Island Station make your way to the far right. The next one is on a bench beside a fountain.
- Go to Paulownia Mall and there is another one right in front of the fountain, which turns out to be 3 of them
- Go to Naganaki Shrine, and the next one is in the back left hand corner
- The next one is in front of the lamppost that is front on the jungle gym in the shrine
- Go to Strip Mall and the next one is on the 3F outside Umiushi Beef Bowls
- Go to Iwatodai Station and the next one is on the right of the construction work, that's being done just in front of the stairs. Check your inventory you should 16 of the Twighlight Fragments

Go to Screen Shot at Port Island Station and watch Smile at the Eiffel Tower (Charm +2)

**Evening**

Go to the 4F for another Twighlight Fragment, it is right by the stairs going up to the roof, giving you a total of 17.

Visit the Vending Machine on the 2F of the dorm and buy both of the “Mad Bull” drinks, then head to Iwatodai Station and go to the vending machine on the far right and buy both “Mad Bull’s”. Lastly head to the Strip Mall and head to the vending machine on the 3F on the left-hand side and buy both “Fountain Dew’s”.

> The SP drinks from the vending machines are a life saver in the early game and will be your main source of SP restorative items for a while. The machines reset every Sunday.

Go to Game Parade in Paulownia Mall and play, House of the Deceased (Courage +2)

