**Lunch Time**

Exam Result: Top of the class (Charm +2)

- Achievement/Trophy: Top of the Class (12/48)

> You'll also gain another 1.51x multiplier on your social link responses for getting top of the class.

**Afternoon**

Stay Awake (Academics +1)

**After School**

Talk to Mitsuru and receive:

- 1x Power Incense I
- 1x Guard Incense I
- 1x Magic Incense I
- 1x Speed Incense I
- 1x Proto-Choker (Equip on Makoto)

> Incense can be used on your personas or party members’ personas. I wouldn’t use them on your personas at this stage in the game, you're going to be changing personas regularly, so they will just end up being wasted. I would also hold off on using them on your party members. Incenses are rare atm, and you've still got plenty of party members to join. I’d recommend waiting until you get every party member, then decide who your favourite ones are, then use your incenses on them.

> If you check out the bulletin board by Mitsuru, you can see how your party members did on the exams.

- Head to the nurse's office and drink the Strange Medicine (Courage +1)

Sell your loot at the police station, you're still not buying any gear from the police station.

Head to the shrine, pray to Inari and copy Makouha (Magic), you got it as a reward from one of Elizabeth's quests, then teach the copy to Principality.

> From today, you can start making use of Inari, the red section of the shrine. Inari will allow you to copy any skill card you have, it’s free and takes up no time, but can only be done once a day. For this guide you'll mostly be focusing on making copies of certain single-target and multi-target elemental spells, plus a few passives.
>
> The only card that you need to make a copy of atm, is another copy of Makouha. Feel free to duplicate any other skill cards that you have on you.

Spend time with Elizabeth, doesn’t take up any time, hand in quest 77.

Head to the Student Council Room

- Sounds like nonsense (+3)
- (Emperor Rank 2)

**Evening**

Rooftop Garden unlocks tonight. Plant Healthy Tomato Sprout.

Grab the Twighlight Fragment in the top left corner

- Achievement/Trophy: Eagle Eye (13/48)

Buy Muscle Boot Camp and Mindful Boot Camp from Manga Star (Net Cafe).

Use Mindful Boot Camp on the Shared Computer (Increase SP by 5)
