
**Daytime**

Vending machines have been refilled.

Spend time with Maiko

- It's up to you (+1)
- That should be enough (+3)
- (Hanged Rank 6)

**Evening**

Grab a Fortune Reading if you want to farm golden hands.

Talk to Fuuka to head to Tartarus.

**Dark Hour**

> Elizabeth will inform you that new doors (Monad) have appeared within Tartarus. They spawn on random floors, and have stronger than usual enemies in them, but they are well worth doing. They will be the main source of base materials for gear crafting, and a great source of rare gems. You have to do the Monad doors as you come across them, they will become inaccessible if you leave the floor and return to do them later.
>
> There is an optional Rank 6 skill card you might want to keep an eye out for, and that is Apt Pupil. It increases crit rate so it's great for physical personas.

> Make sure every party member has used their Theurgy's at least once, at some point in the game by the time you leave tonight, it's needed for an achievement later.

> If you form your party with all 3 girls, you will get the infamous harem line today. It plays as soon as you enter the new block, so if you want to listen to it, don't fight any shadows straight away.

> You can at random times from tonight onwards get a great clock to spawn when you use Twighlight Fragments on locked chests. It acts as a level buff for any members who might be falling behind, the further behind a character is the bigger the boost, up to a maximum of 13 levels and you can do two characters each time. You need to defeat a shadow, with that member in the party for the levelling to take effect.

You now have access to Lovers Major Arcana card, which increases the bonus that social links give when fusing personas, you'll want to get it before doing any fusions tonight. You'll also need to defeat a rare shadow today for a quest.

If you're using DLC personas, dismiss Gurulu and summon Carmen.

Return to the 68F and continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 77F for the first gatekeeper of the block. Defeat the gatekeeper, open the chest and give the Floaty Sandals to whoever you want.

> Fuuka will tell you about her Sylphid Aura which is similar to her Theurgy buff that gives Att/Def/Acc/Eva, but Sylphid Aura only gives Def/Acc/Eva. It's best used for tough fights when Fukka's Theurgy isn't ready to be used.

Continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 82F and defeat the gatekeeper. Open the chests and give the Slugger Jacket to Junpei.

Continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 89F, you'll then have your next back-to-back gatekeeper fights. After defeating them, open the chests. You can give either Fists of Fury or Jack's Gloves to Akihiko, both weapons have decent sub effects.

> On the 91F you'll reach a new kind of door, a "Monad Passage". These always spawn on the same floor, typically just before a border floor, they also require a specific Major Tarot card to open them. These enemies are by far the strongest you'll face in any given block, and you'll have to defeat multiple shadows to reach the bottom. You do get some nice rewards though, including gear, cosmetics and Major Arcana cards.
>
> You don't have to do the Monad Passage in one go, the game will give you an option to retreat after each fight. Unlike the Monad Doors, you don't have to do these when you enter a floor, you can leave and come back if you want.

Enter the Monad Passage and defeat the first enemy, open the chests and give the Ice Saber to Mitsuru. Continue down the Monad Passage and defeat the second enemy, open the chest to get the Temperance Major Arcana Card.

- Achievement/Trophy: Beyond the Darkness (28/48)

Once completed, head to the 92F for the border floor, open the chest and then return to the entrance.

You should be able to hand in quests 30, 32, 36, 37 and 60 to Elizabeth.

This unlocks:

- 47\. Treasure Hunting Milestone #4

> If you're using DLC personas, click [DLC Fusion Guide August](dlc-fusion-guide-main-game#august).

You'll want to have 220k before doing the next batch of fusions, I recommend floors 82 to 89 so you can farm the rank 6 skill cards at the same time. Once you're ready, save your game, enter the velvet room, register your personas and fuse:

| **Fusion Recipe**                         | **Skills to Pass on**                                        | **Skills to Keep**                                       |
| ----------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| Matador and Take-Minakata Result: Mithras | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 1 | Agilao, Makouha, Swift Strike and Rakunda                |
| Mitra and Mithras Result: Lamia           | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 1 | Stagnant Air, Poison Mist, Poison Boost and Resist Charm |
| Lamia and Hua Po Result: Yamata-No-Orochi | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 1 | Bufula, Zio,Single Shot, and Single-Target Boost         |

Leave and re-enter the Velvet Room, you'll get a discount on summoning personas for having over 25% of the compendium. It's also a good idea to periodically save while doing your fusions, the more fusions you do, the higher the chance of an accident. Saving means you won't have restart from the beginning if you're not happy with the accident.

| **Fusion Recipe**                      | **Skills to Keep**                                                    | **Skills to Pass On**                                                |
| -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Naga and Narcissus Result: Legion      | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 1          | Assault Dive, Pulinpa, Sexy Dance and Confuse Boost                  |
| Legion and Shiisaa Result: Orthus      | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 1          | Fatal End, Agilao, Counter and Resist Poison                         |
| Legion and Orthus Result: Baphomet     | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Invigorate 1 and Agilao                 | Eiga, Maeiga, Maragi and Fire Boost                                  |
| Lamia and High Pixie Result: Jikokuten | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Invigorate 1, last skill doesn't matter | Getsu-ei, Revolution, Crit Rate Boost, Auto Sukukaja and Slash Boost |
| Hua Po and Baphomet Result: Genbu      | Auto Tarukaja, Invigorate 1 Agilao and Maragi                         | Dekunda, Auto Rakukaja, Resist Strike, and Anti-Ice Master           |

| **Fusion Recipe**                                      | **Skills to Pass On**                                               | **Skills to Keep**                                         |
| ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Jikokuten and Fortuna Result: Yatagarasu               | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 1        | Doesn't max out its skill list                             |
| Genbu and Jack-o-Lantern Result: Power                 | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Invigorate 1 and Kouha                | Arrow Rain, Torrent Shot, Mahama and Dodge Dark            |
| Take-Mikazuchi and Yamata-no-Orochi Result: Queen Medb | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 1        | Me Patra, Mazio, Maragi and Multi-Target Boost             |
| Narcissus and Baphomet Result: Setanta                 | Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja, Invigorate 1 and Dodge Fire           | Doesn't max out its skill list                             |
| Mithras and Stanta Result: Kushi Mitama                | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Invigorate 1 and Dodge Fire           | Garula, Magaru, Recarm and Regenerate 2                    |
| Yatagarasu and Power Result: Sati                      | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 1        | Agilao, Maragion, Media and Anti-Fire Master               |
| Quuen Medb and Sati Result: Oni                        | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 1        | Bash, Swift Strike, Counterstrike and Anti-Electric Master |
| Kushi Mitama and Oni Result: Sarasvati                 | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Invigorate 1 and Anti-Electric Master | Diarama, Mediarama, Mabaisudi and Anti-Wind Master         |
| Yatagarasu and Gurulu Result: Eigor                    | Auto Tarukaja, Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja and Invigorate 1        | Doesn't max out its skill list                             |

You should have every persona fused up to level 30 now. Summon Mithras.

- Makoto's Characteristics unlocked: Weakness Boost, for hitting 30% compendium  
   (Increases damage by 10% when hitting an enemy's weakness)

Hand in quests 25 and 48 to Elizabeth, which unlocks:

- 35\. Fusion Series #3: Hermit, Mothman

Dismiss Mithras. Elizabeth will now ask you to escort her to Naganaki Shrine.

The personas you want on you are **Kushi Mitama, Baphomet, Take-Minakata, Yamata-no-Orochi, Jikokuten, Oni, Power, Queen Medb, Genbu,** **Eligor, Sarasvati** and **Shiisaa**.

- Teach Makouha to Power and replace Mahama
- When Baphomet learns Maeiga, replace Dodge Fire.

You'll want at least 50k, after selling all your loot.

> **Important! Important!**
> Make sure you have personas from the following arcana before leaving: **Priestess, Hanged, Strength, Moon, Justice, Lovers, Temperence, Hierophant, Chariot,** and **Tower,** these are going to be the social links you'll be working on. You'll need at least **50\*\***k\*\* after selling all loot.
>
> If you want to buy all shopping channel items, you'll need at least 70k.
>
> If you want to work out what your loot is worth before you leave, then you can use [Loot and Breakable Objects Yabbashah Block 1](loot-and-breakable-objects#yabbashah-block-1-69f-92f), which has the name and sale values of everything.
>
> If you're not following the fusion guide, you may need to farm more yen, the amounts calculated here don't include any additional persona swapping that I don't specifically mention.\*\*


#### **8/4 Tuesday**

**Daytime**

Sell your loot, then head to the antiques store, you should have enough gemstones to grab the Invigorate 2 and Growth 2 skill cards.

You can now start upgrading the gear on your team, you won't be able to get every single item for every character, so I recommend focusing on the characters you are using, you can also move the replaced gear over to other characters. There's no gear crafting for Aigis atm, but you can make do with her starter gear just fine.

> There's a random chance that you can get the AS Generic Material in the last Tartarus block, which is what you need for Aigis's gear, but it has a very low drop rate in that block.

> **Important! Important!**
> If you want to be able to upgrade more of your characters in one go, or collect every item from the antiques shop, you'll need to farm previous Tartarus blocks in future visits. Once you have cleared out a new Tartarus block you can return to the older blocks and farm the Monad Doors in these for more base materials and rare gemstones.
>
> For a full breakdown on all the gear available at the antiques shop, including stats, effects, materials needed, and which personas are needed for which item, click [Mayoido Antiques Gear](mayoido-antiques-gear).

|             | **Weapon**      | **Armor**        | **Footwear**  | **Accessory**    |
| ----------- | --------------- | ---------------- | ------------- | ---------------- |
| **Makoto**  | Outenta Mitsuyo | Plate Mail       | Electro Shoes | Mega Master Band |
| **Yukari**  | Source Yumi     | Sorcery Robe     | Leg Protector | Wind Bracers     |
| **Mitsuru** | Flamberge       | Sorcery Robe     | Leg Protector | Ice Bracers      |
| **Junpei**  | Claymore        | Slugger's Jacket | Electro Shoes | Fire Bracer      |
| **Akihiko** | Jack's Gloves   | Plate Mail       | Electro Shoes | Thunder Bracers  |

> Over the summer holidays you'll need to go to the shrine, in order to make copies of some skill cards.
>
> You'll need:
>
> - 15x Invigorate 2
> - 6x Growth 2
>
> You'll want to replace Invigorate 1, with Invigorate 2 on all your current personas.
>
> Growth 2 is going to be useful for the Heart Item personas, you can teach it to them and passively level them, as you run around Tartarus. These heart items are needed for a lot of future gear crafting.

Spend time with Elizabeth, then hand in quest 79.

> You can use Rewind if you want to view Keisuke's hangout.

Accept Fuuka's invite

- At home on DVD (+3)

**Evening**

Watch a DVD with Yukari (Charm and Social Link +1)

