
**Daytime**

Accept Keisuke's invite

- You're right (+3)

**Evening**

> There is a Koromaru walk with Mamoru tonight, but its a repeat scene.

Get a Gamble Fortune.

Speak to Fuuka and head to Tartarus.

**Dark Hour**

> I'd highly recommend getting the Devil Arcana tonight, it's going to significantly increase the speed you can farm Gold Quartz, Diamonds and Rubies which are needed for endgame gear. Try to get the Lovers Arcana as well if you can. You'll need to be level 82 or have the Sun Arcana to do tonight's fusions.
>
> Q rank skill cards will start dropping tonight, which means you can get Amp cards (50% damage increase), these are optional though, a lot of the best personas already naturally learn these as they level up. Q rank yen cards drop between 40 to 50k each time, so you can earn a lot of yen quickly.
>
> If you're planning on taking on the secret boss, you'll need to farm Ice Amp and Slash Amp.

Return to the 225F and begin climbing Tartarus, as soon as you reach the new block on the 227F you will unlock:  
(Judgement Rank 2)

Continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 230F for the first gatekeeper, defeat it and you will unlock:  
(Judgement Rank 3)

Open the chests and give the Hanzo's Sandals to Makoto, these have Auto Masuku on them, which means you can replace anyone who is using Silent Sandals, with Mysterious Geta if you have them. Equip the Antimatter Cannon on Aigis unless you have Pandemonium for her.

Continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 236F for the next gatekeeper, defeat it and you will unlock:  
(Judgement Rank 4)

Continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 241F for the next gatekeeper, defeat it and you will unlock:  
(Judgment Rank 5)

Open the chests, I'd give the Godspeed Shoes to whoever doesn't have Mysterious Geta.

Continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 246F for your next back-to-back gatekeeper fights, defeat the first one and you will unlock:  
(Judgment Rank 6)

Open the chests, I'd recommend giving the Goddess Boots to Mitsuru, her Diamond Dust and Concentrate skills use a lot of SP.

Head up to the 247F and defeat the gatekeeper and you will unlock:  
(Judgment Rank 7)

Open the chests, I wouldn't give Makoto Excalibur, even though the 100 SP is nice, you should basically have infinite SP between Life Aid and Spell Master.

Continue climbing Tartarus until you reach the 253F and you'll face 3 gatekeepers in a row, defeat the first one and you will unlock:  
(Judgement Rank 8)

Head up to the 254F, defeat the gatekeeper and you will unlock:  
(Judgment Rank 9)

Head up to the 255F and defeat the final gatekeeper. Afterwards you will unlock:  
(Judgement Rank 10)

The last Monad Passage is on the 255F, defeat the first shadow and second shadows and open the chests. I wouldn't give Myohou Muramasa to Makoto, the Dark Amp on it is only good for one element. Defeat the final shadow and afterwards, you'll see a door you can't access for now.

Head up to the 256F for the border floor and return to the entrance.

Hand in quest 99 to Elizabeth.

> If you're using DLC personas, then click [DLC Fusion Guide January 10th](dlc-fusion-guide-main-game#january-10th).

If you have the Lovers Arcana, are at least level 82 and have at least 1.2 million yen, then save your game, enter the velvet room, register your personas and fuse:

> If you have the Sun Arcana, you only need to be level 77 to do these fusions.

| **Fusion Recipe**                           | **Skills to Pass On**                                                 | **Skills to Keep**                                                    |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Siegfried and Thor Result: Byakko           | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                 | Mabufudyne, Heat wave, Freeze Boost and Evade Fire                    |
| Seth and Houou Result: Horus                | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                 | Kougan, Mahamaon, Evade Dark and Growth 3                             |
| Norn and Horus Result: Satan                | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                 | Diamond Dust, Concentrate, Debilitate and Repel Wind                  |
| Raphael and Satan Result: Baal Zebul        | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                 | Eigaon, Maeigaon, Magarudyne and Megidola                             |
| Daisoujou and Baal Zebul Result: Futsunushi | Auto Maraku, Null Dark, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                    | Vorpal Blade, Bloody Charge, Apt Pupil and Sharp Student              |
| Hell Biker and Alice Result: Atavaka        | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                 | God's Hand, Brave Blade, Maragidyne and Null Dizzy                    |
| Skadi and Fusunushi Result: Attis           | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                 | Megidolaon, Mahamaon, Samarecarm, Survival Trick                      |
| Fuse Kohryu From the Special Fusion         | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Resist Strike Life Aid and Enduring Soul   | Concentrate, Makougaon and Invigorate 3                               |
| Fuse Mara From the Special Fusion           | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Null Fear Life Aid and Enduring Soul       | Primal Force, Myriad Arrows, Charge and Pierce Amp (Delete Null Fear) |
| Fuse Susano-o From the Special Fusion       | Auto Maraku, Enduring Soul, Life Aid, Crit Rate Boost and Resist Fire | Vorpal Blade, Charge and Slash Amp                                    |
| Fuse Thanatos From the Special Fusion       | Concentrate, Eiga, Auto Maruku, Life Aid and Enduring Soul            | Maeigaon, Megidolaon and Dark Amp                                     |
| Rangda and Barong Result: Shive             | Ziodyne, Auto Maraku, Life Aid and Elec Boost                         | Pralaya, Maziodyne, Enduring Soul and Ali Dance                       |
| Shiva and Cu Chulainn Result: Bishamonten   | Charge, Auto Maraku, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                       | Primal Force, Myriad Arrows, Crit Rate Amp and Pierce Amp             |
| Fuse Masakado From the Special Fusion       | Auto Maraku, Crit Rate Amp, Charge, Pierce Amp and Enduring Soul      | Myriad Arrows, Debilitate and Arms Master                             |
| Thanatos and Masakado Result: Anata         | Enduring Soul, Life Aid, Arms Master and Crit Rate Amp                | Doesn't max out skill list                                            |
| Yurlungur and Mara Result: Abaddon          | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                 | Deathbound, Virus Breath, Evil Smile and Ailment Boost                |
| Ananta and Abaddon Result: Saturnus         | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                 | Inferno, Maragidyne, Concentrate and Fire Amp                         |
| Fuse Beelzebub From the Special Fusion      | Eigaon, Auto Maruku, Life Aid, Spell Master and Enduring Soul         | Concentrate, Maeigaon and Dark Amp                                    |
| Loki and Thor Result: Odin                  | Null Wind, Auto Maraku, Spell Master and Enduring Soul                | Thunder Reign, Maziodyne, Elec Amp and Conentrate                     |

You will unlock a new Theurgy

- Trickster  
   (For having Susano-o and Loki in the compendium)

Hand in quest 98 to Elizabeth.

The personas that you want on you are **Kohryu, Atavaka, Susano-o, Saturnus, Beelzebub, Yurlungur, Ball Zebul, Odin, Skadi, Siegfried, Ananta and Norn**

- Teach Growth 3 to Kohryu, replace Invigorate 3
- Teach Growth 3 to Atavaka, replace Null Dizzy, Replace Growth 3 with Firm Stance when it learns it
- Teach Growth 3 to Susano-o, replace Life Aid. Replace Growth 3 with Repel light when it learns it
- Teach Growth 3 to Saturnus, replace Concentrate. Replace Growth 3 with Repel Ice when it learns it
- Teach Growth 3 Baal Zebul, replace Megidola. Replace Growth 3 with Panta Rhei when it learns it
- Teach Growth 3 to Odin, replace Concentrate. Replace Growth 3 with Life Aid after Heart Item drops
- Teach Growth 3 to Ananta, Replace Evade Slash with Resist Ailments, then replace Growth 3 with Resist Slash when it learns it

> Hopefully you got the Devil's Arcana, as it will make this next stage a lot faster. You'll want to do all or most of your Ruby, Gold Quartz and Diamond farming now. Farming for endgame gear is completely optional, you can beat the final boss with your current gear and personas.
>
> How much you need to farm will depend on how many pieces of gear you want to upgrade for each character and how many characters you want to do endgame gear for. If you're only looking to take on the secret boss, get the ultimate weapons and a Null accessory for each character, then you will need:
>
> - Makoto, 15 Rubies (Weapon and Armour of Light for secret boss)
> - Junpei, 7 Rubies
> - Yukari, 5 Rubies
> - Akihiko, 5 Rubies
> - Mitsuru, 7 Rubies
> - Aigis, 7 Rubies (This does include Armour and Footwear)
> - Koromaru, 3 Rubies (For his Armour)
> - Ken, 5 Rubies
>
> Depending on who you're using, you are looking at around 30-35 Rubies for a core party (4 members) and 47 for everyone.
>
> If you also want to get Shoes of Light for everyone (Aigis and Koromaru can't equip), which have Ali Dance on them and are the best footwear in the game, that's an additional 5 Rubies per character, and would bring you up to 72 rubies for everyone. Even if you're planning on doing everyone, I wouldn't get Shoes of Light for Makoto, I'd keep Hanzo's Sandals for him. You can always teach Ali Dance to his personas and the Hanzo's Sandals have Auto Masuku, which when combined with Ali Dance on everyone else is a very effective combo.
>
> Some people also like to farm Armour of Light for everyone too, it does have the highest damage reduction, but it's debatable if it's actually the best armour. I prefer Fallen Noble Armour on my characters for Unshaken Will (null's mental ailments) and I find this more useful than a higher damage reduction. If you do want Armour of Light that's an additional 5 Rubies per character and would bring you up 97 Rubies for everyone.
>
> Depending on how many characters you are doing gear for, you will need somewhere between 30-50 Gold Quartz and anywhere between 30 to160 Diamonds. Armour of Light and Shoes of Light require 10 Diamonds each, so getting those for everyone majorly increases the amount you need.
>
> - Diamonds are 50k at Club Escapade
> - Gold Quartz can be exchanged at the Antiques shop for 5x Diamonds, so basically 250K
> - Rubies can't be brought or traded for, can only be farmed.
>
> The amount of farming needed for gearing up a core team, compared to everyone is significant. The game will give you close to what you need of Dead Moon's Husks, White Nihil Models and Nihil Black Models for a core team. If you want extra, then you'll need to farm, and they all have very low drop rates. There is a strategy for farming these base materials, but it is still very time consuming.
>
> You don't have to do it all tonight but considering the Devil Arcana doubles the number of Rubies, Gold Quartz and Diamonds you get every time one drops, it's best to do it tonight, instead of having to get the Devil Arcana again another night.
>
> I'd recommend working out which characters you want to upgrade and what gear you want to get for them, and farm all or most of what you need tonight, while the Devil Arcana is active.
>
> That way future Tartarus visits can be dedicated to just farming the last Tartarus block, for the striped chests, which have the Dead Moon's Husks, White Nihil Models and Nihil Black Models. The more endgame gear you want to make the more nights you will need to do this.
>
> Diamonds, Gold Quartz and Diamonds are all drops from shadows on floors 247 to 252. Rubies and Gold Quartz drop from the Formidable Shadow Tenjin Musha and Rubies and Diamonds drop from regular shadows on these floors. I'd keep track of what you get as drops, that way if there's one item you are needing of more than the others, you can then start focusing more on the normal shadows or Formidable Shadows, depending on what you need.
>
> You don't need to farm all your Gold Quartz and Diamonds, as you can buy more, and you will be getting a fair bit of yen while doing this. Buying Gold Quartz and Diamonds does add up quick though, and you will still need about 2.5 million to do the last of the fusions on the final day.
>
> While you're doing this keep an eye out for Vorpal Blade, Ice Amp and Slash Amp skills cards, all are Q rank. Ice Amp and Slash Amp are needed if you want to take on the secret boss and Vorpal Blade is an upgrade on Deathbound for Siegfried. You don't really need it, but if it comes up in a shuffle time, you may as well grab it.


#### **1/11 Monday**

**Daytime**

> Reminder to keep making copies of Growth 3, you'll want around 25 for the final day.

Spend with Nozomi

(Moon Rank 10)

**Evening**

Harvest the Rooftop Garden, then plant Golden Tomato Sprout.

Sell you loot and upgrade your gear at the antiques shop. Make sure to grab Tonbo-kiri today.

> You won't be able to get most of the weapons, Armour of Light or Shoes of Light atm, as you'll be missing persona Heart Items. You'll be doing another batch of persona fusions at the end of the month, once you've finished up the social links, and you'll be getting the rest of the Heart Items then. You should be able to get most of the accessories now though.
>
> You can also use this opportunity to work out how much you need of each of the base materials, you will then know exactly, how much you need to farm of each in the future.
>
> Some gear requires Heart Items from the same persona, if any of the gear you are interested needs Heart Items from the same persona, then I'd recommend using the Ctrl + F in [Mayoido Antiques Gear](mayoido-antiques-gear) section and search for that Heart Item. You'll be able to find out exactly which persona it comes from, and you'll know which persona you need to fuse and level more than once.
>
> If you're using DLC personas and have some spare yen, then getting some Magic Incenses for Mercurius, Kamu Susano-o and Seiten Taisei can be useful. Want to aim to get their magic stat to around 65-70, Incense II are the best value ones to get.

|              | **Weapon**        | **Armor**                              | **Footwear**                      | **Accessory**     |
| ------------ | ----------------- | -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| **Makoto**   | Lucifer’s Blade   | Fallen Noble Armour or Armour of Light | Hanzo’s Sandals                   | Power Transmitter |
| **Yukari**   | Quintessence Bow  | Fallen Noble Armour or Armour of Light | Mysterious Geta or Shoes of Light | Lightning Gloves  |
| **Junpei**   | Masakado’s Katana | Fallen Noble Armour or Armour of Light | Mysterious Geta or Shoes of Light | Storm Ring        |
| **Akihiko**  | Double Zigguart   | Fallen Noble Armour or Armour of Light | Mysterious Geta or Shoes of Light | Frozen Stone      |
| **Mitsuru**  | Snow Queen Whip   | Fallen Noble Armour or Armour of Light | Mysterious Geta or Shoes of Light | Blazing Flame     |
| **Aigis**    | Metatronius       | Soul of Athena                         | Swan Legs                         | Lightning Gloves  |
| **Koromaru** | Varja             | Aura Dog Suit                          | Bare Paws                         | Ratri Bracers     |
| **Ken**      | Gungnir           | Fallen Noble Armour or Armour of Light | Mysterious Geta or Shoes of Light | Ring of Darkness  |

Hand in quest 91 to Elizabeth.

> This is the first of your free nights. There're a few things you can do, you can take a party member to Be Blue V and re-order their skills, you can go to the arcade and increases stats on an equipped persona. I'd recommend Siegfried, or you can go to Tartarus and farm Dead Moon's Husks, White Nihil Models and Nihil Black Models.
>
> For tonight I'd recommend going to Tartarus. Everyone should have Fallen Noble Armour and have Null Accessories to protect their weakness, which makes it the perfect time to take on the Reaper.
>
> To get the Reaper to Spawn, just spend 5 minutes on the same floor and he will appear. The Reaper is a very powerful shadow and can be a handful on merciless. but being able to protect your weakness and protect yourself from mental ailments makes the fight much more manageable. If you're having trouble beating the Reaper, you'll unlock a Theurgy with your final batch of persona fusions, that will allow you to one shot the Reaper.

If you manage to beat the reaper, return to entrance and hand in quest 100 to Elizabeth, which unlocks:

- Achievement/Trophy: Reaper Reaped (44/48)
- 101: Take out the ultimate adversary

This is the secret boss, and if you're interested in taking it on, you'll be doing it on the very final day.

