**After School**

> Each romanced girl has a very small bonus scene. All 5 girls are available today, if you want to watch them, use the rewind feature. Once you've viewed them all, rewind again as you still need to complete Aigis's social link.

Spend time with Aigis

(Aeon Rank 10)

- Achievement/Trophy: A Legacy of Friendships (45/48)

**Evening**

Get a Rarity Fortune.

Speak to Fuuka and head to Tartarus

**Dark Hour**

> Now that you've finished all social links and linked episodes, you can finish of the compendium. You either need to be level 91 or at least level 86 with a Sun Arcana to do all the fusions tonight.
>
> If you need to level, the fastest way is to fight the Reaper, if you're struggling to defeat the reaper then you need to be level 88 or level 83 with the Sun Arcana to fuse Helel, the persona needed to get the Armageddon Theurgy, which can cheese the reaper.
>
> Helel is the first persona in the fusion section, so you can fuse that first if you need help with the Reaper. Once you have Helel and Satan in the compendium you will unlock the Armageddon Theurgy, it does 9,999 damage to any shadow but will drain all your SP and leave you with 1 HP. If you want to maximise your exp, fight the reaper solo, enter the fight with a full Theurgy, nuke the Reaper with Armageddon and he will die, make sure to grab an exp card from the shuffle time. Doing this shouldn't take more than a couple of fights to get you to level 91.

You'll want to run through the final block of Tartarus for the two missing people. You can either just run through and grab them or if you need exp and yen, you can fight shadows along the way. It might be worth grabbing the Monad Doors along the way, as they give a ton of Major Arcana cards. You don't really need specific ones tonight, except maybe Sun or possibly Devil, but If you need to farm more yen tonight, getting the Major Arcana cards from the Nomad Doors will make getting an Arcana Burst much easier. The Q rank cards drop significantly more yen than previous ranks.

It's up to you, if you want to get the Lovers Arcana card before doing fusions tonight. It can take a while though, it's probably quicker if you already have the yen to just fuse everything, teach the personas, Growth 3 and nuke the Reaper for exp, quickly unlocking any skills and Heart Items.

> If you're using DLC Personas, then click [DLC Fusion Guide January 30th](dlc-fusion-guide-main-game#january-30th).

When you have at least 2.5 million yen, save your game, enter the velvet room, register your personas and fuse:

| **Fusion Recipe**                          | **Skils to Pass On**                                                                            | **Skills to Keep**                                                        |
| ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Ananta and Beelzebub Result: Helel         | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                                           | Morning Star, Heat Riser, Salvation and Makougaon                         |
| Baal Zebul and Odin Result: Cybele         | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                                           | Diarahan, Mediarahan, Makougaon and Light Amp                             |
| Saturnus and Yurlungur Result: Lakshmi     | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Evade Fire and Enduring Soul                                         | Bufudyne, Mabufudyne, Diarahan and Amrita Shower                          |
| Atavaka and Helel Result: Scathach         | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                                           | Mabufudyne, Magarudyne, Myriad Arrows and Freeze Boost                    |
| Masakado and Cybele Result: Vishnu         | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                                           | Phanta Rhei, Akasha Arts, Concentrate and Ali Dance                       |
| Odin and Abaddon Result: Sandalphon        | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                                           | Divine Judgement, Makougaon, Akasha Arts and Salvation                    |
| Lakshmi and Abaddon Result: Mother Harlot  | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Evade Fire and Enduring Soul                                         | Ziodyne, Maziodyne, Mamudoon and Mudo Boost                               |
| Susano-o and Sandalphon Result: Alilat     | Auto Maraku, Spell Master, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                                           | Diamond Dust, Mabufudyne, Inferno and Repel Fire                          |
| Satan and Helel Result: Chi You            | Diamond Dust, Debilitate, Concentrate and Spell Master                                          | Akasha Arts, Vorpal Blade, Charge and Arms Master                         |
| Norn and Kaiwan Result: Surt               | Auto Rakukaja, Auto Sukukaja, Life Aid and Endure                                               | Inferno, Maragidyne, Deathbound and Auto Tarukaja                         |
| Seth and Uriel Result: Michael             | Auto Maraku, Vorpal Blade, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                                           | Heaven's Blade, Divine Judgement, Makougaon, and Heat Riser               |
| Barong and Rangda Result: Shiva            | Auto Maruku, Life Aid, High Counter and Endure                                                  | God's Hand, Pralaya, Enduring Soul and Invigorate 3                       |
| Fuse Asura From the Special Fusion         | Firm Stance, Apt Pupil, Crit Rate Amp, Enduring Soul and Revolution                             | Akasha Arts, Heat Riser, Strike Amp and Unshaken Will (Delete Revolution) |
| Fuse Metatron From the Special Fusion      | Auto Maraku, Kougaon, Heat Riser, Life Aid and Enduring Soul                                    | Divine Judgment, Makougaon and Light Amp                                  |
| Fuse Lucifer From the Special Fusion       | Diamond Dust, Morning Star, Heat Riser, Enduring Soul and Spell Master                          | Inferno, Debilitate, and Phanta Rhei                                      |
| Thantaos and Orpheus Result: Messiah       | Auto Maraku, Concentrate and Life Aid                                                           | Megidolaon, God's Hand, Regenerate 3, Enduring Soul and Null Phys         |
| Fuse Orpheus Telos From the Special Fusion | Diamond Dust, Heat Riser, Firm Stance Regenerate 3, Concentrate, Spell Master and Enduring Soul | Victory Cry                                                               |

Congratulations, you have just filled the compendium, and you just unlocked:

- Achievement/Trophy: Path to Salvation (46/48)

All that's left now is to get all the Heart Item from these personas. The quickest way to do this, is to teach Growth 3 to all of them, farm the Reaper solo, nuke him with Armageddon, then rinse and repeat. Your equipped persona should be Orpheus Telos for Victory Cry, then the 11 other personas should all be ones that need to drop Heart Items. You'll have to dismiss personas like Siegfried for now. If you're not intending to farm any endgame gear, this can all be skipped.

Make sure you leave and re-enter the velvet room, you will get a massive discount on summoning personas now.

The personas that you want on you are **Orpheus Telos, Scathach, Alilat, Surt, Shiva, Lucifer, Messiah, Metatron, Chi You, Asura, Sandalphon** and **Thanatos**

- Teach Growth 3 to Scathach, replace Freeze Boost. Replace Growth 3 with Auto Mataru, when it learns it
- Teach Growth 3 to Alilat, replace Inferno. Replace Growth 3 with Repel Pierce
- Teach Growth 3 to Surt, replace Auto Tarukaja. Replace Growth 3 with Fire Amp
- Teach Growth 3 to Shiva, replace Endure. Replace Growth 3 with Ali Dance
- Teach Growth 3 to Lucifer, replace Enduring Soul, Replace Growth 3 with Resist Phys
- Teach Growth 3 to Messiah, replace God's Hand. Replace Growth 3 with Magic Ability
- Teach Growth 3 to Metatron, replace Divine Judegment. Replace Growth 3 with Repel Elec
- Teach Growth 3 to Chi You, replace Spell Master. Replace Growth 3 with Drain Strike
- Teach Growth 3 to Asura, replace Unshaken Will
- Teach Growth 3 to Sandalphon, replace Salvation. Replace Growth 3 with Drain Dark
- Teach Growth 3 to Thanatos, replace Eiga

Run around and get your Theurgy ready. Once it's ready, remove all party members, set Orpheus Telos as the active persona, then wait for the Reaper to spawn and use Armageddon. Grab the exp card from the shuffle time, one fight should be enough to get the Heart Items from all these personas. Register these personas and then dismiss Thanatos, Scathach, Surt, Sandalphon, Shivea, Asura, Lucifer, Chi You and Messiah.

> If for any of these personas, you need more than one of their Heart Items, then don't register that persona. If you dismiss it straight away, you can summon it again and repeat this process.

Summon any other personas that you still need Heart Items from, I only had 5 more, Beelzebub, Vishnu, Kohryu, Lakshmi, and Cybele.

- Teach Growth 3 to Vishnu, replace Concentrate. Replace Growth 3 with Salvation
- Teach Growth 3 to Lakshmi, replace Diarahan. Replace Growth 3 with Salvation
- Teach Growth 3 to Kohryu, replace Invigorate 3
- Teach Growth 3 to Cybele, replace Diarahan

For any other personas that you still need to get Heart Items from, you'll have to choose what skill to delete for Growth 3, Farm the Reaper once more, but set Beelzebub has the active persona so it gets the exp without needing a Growth card. You should now have every heart item in the game.

Depending on how much endgame gear you are making, you may need to repeat this process a few more times, for duplicate Heart Items. Register and dismiss Vishnu, Lakshmi, Kohry uand Cybele.

The personas you want on you are **Orpheus Telos, Siegfried, Beelzebub, Alilat, Metatron, Saturnus, Odin and Ball Zebul**

> These are your final personas, if you've farmed any Resist, Null, Boost or Amp cards, you can teach them to these personas to cover any weakness, or for more damage if you want. You can also grab Ali Dance from the Antiques shop.
>
> If you're wondering about the curious build on Orpheus Telos, it's because you've started setting him up for the secret boss tomorrow.

All that's left now is farm enough yen to make all your endgame gear tomorrow. It's hard to put an estimate on how much you will need, as theirs a lot of different factors, but anywhere between 1 and 6 million yen should be enough to do endgame gear, depending on how many characters you are doing and how many gemstones you farmed. If you're wanting to take on the secret boss tomorrow, then you will need around an additional 2 million yen for all the incense cards that you will need.

My advice is farm the lowest amount of yen you think you will need, save the game and then leave Tartarus. If you don't have enough yen, you can just load your save and farm some more, plus it should give you a rough idea of how much more yen you need to farm.

> If you want to take on quest 101 tomorrow, you will have to make some very specific personas. It is by far the hardest boss in the game, and has some very strict rules, that if you violate causes an insta-kill Megidolaon attack that hits for 9,999. This boss is entirely optional, there is no achievement, or anything locked behind it.
>
> There's 3 skill card you need to farm tonight if you want to do the secret boss:
>
> - Rank 5, Slash Boost
> - Rank Q, Slash Amp
> - Qank Q, Ice Amp
>
> You'll need to re-fuse Chi You for the secret boss
>
> | **Fusion Recipe**                   | **Skills to Pass On**                                    | **Skills to Keep** | **Skill Cards to Use**                        |
> | ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------ | --------------------------------------------- |
> | Asura and Daisoujou Result: Chi You | Apt Pupil, Firm Stance, Crit Rate Amp, and Enduring Soul | Charge             | Slash Boost, Slash Amp and Multi-Target Boost |
>
> Use the Reaper to level Chi You to level 99, have it as your equipped persona when you fight the reaper. Do not learn Drain Strike, you can't use any Drain skills in the secret boss, then do the same for Orpheus Telos, if it's not already level 99.
>
> Teach Ice Amp and Endure to Orpheus Telos, replace Victory Cry and Enduring Soul. Remember you can always re-fuse Orpheus Telos after doing the secret boss if you want these skills back.
>
> Click here for a detailed breakdown on how to set up and defeat this boss [Guide for the Secret Boss.](guide-for-the-secret-boss-main-game)

> If you’re interested in making perfect personas for your playstyle, you can start re-fusing personas. I’d recommend using this fusion calculator:
>
> https://aqiu384.github.io/megaten-fusion-tool/p3r/personas
>
> Select the personas you want, the skills you want, and it will show you exactly how to do it.

#### **1/31 Sunday**

**Daytime**

Sell your loot and collect your rewards.

For the final day, you'll be doing the final activity that you haven't done yet, and that is the Monetary Offering at the Shrine. Offer the amount of your choosing, makes no difference since social stats are maxed.

**Evening**

> You can head out to town after the cutscene.

Upgrade your gear at the antiques shop.

> If you want to do the secret boss tonight, make sure to grab Lucifer's Blade and an Armour of Light. You'll also need to grab the incense's needed for this fight tonight.

|              | **Weapon**        | **Armor**                              | **Footwear**                      | **Accessory**     |
| ------------ | ----------------- | -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| **Makoto**   | Lucifer’s Blade   | Fallen Noble Armour or Armour of Light | Hanzo’s Sandals                   | Power Transmitter |
| **Yukari**   | Quintessence Bow  | Fallen Noble Armour or Armour of Light | Mysterious Geta or Shoes of Light | Lightning Gloves  |
| **Junpei**   | Masakado’s Katana | Fallen Noble Armour or Armour of Light | Mysterious Geta or Shoes of Light | Storm Ring        |
| **Akihiko**  | Double Zigguart   | Fallen Noble Armour or Armour of Light | Mysterious Geta or Shoes of Light | Frozen Stone      |
| **Mitsuru**  | Snow Queen Whip   | Fallen Noble Armour or Armour of Light | Mysterious Geta or Shoes of Light | Blazing Flame     |
| **Aigis**    | Metatronius       | Soul of Athena                         | Swan Legs                         | Lightning Gloves  |
| **Koromaru** | Varja             | Aura Dog Suit                          | Bare Paws                         | Ratri Bracers     |
| **Ken**      | Gungnir           | Fallen Noble Armour or Armour of Light | Mysterious Geta or Shoes of Light | Ring of Darkness  |

When you’ve finished shopping, head back to the dorm and leave for Tartarus.

**Dark Hour**

> If you haven't done so, register all your personas. If your compendium isn't fully updated, your personas can lose stats and skills when you import it into Episode Aigis.

If you're taking on the secret boss, head to the depths of the Monad Passage on the 255F and enter the previously locked door.

When you're ready to take on the final boss, return to the 256F and continue past the last border floor.

> This is the only time in the game, you can get K rank cards to drop. You need an Arcana Burst and to farm past the 256F.

The 259F is a preparation floor, where you can choose your party. When you’re ready head up to the ramp for the first of the final bosses.

Once you’ve defeated the boss, continue climbing until you reach the next preparation floor, which is the 263F. Once you're ready, head up the ramp to take on the 2nd of the final bosses.

You get one more preparation area, once you're ready, head for the final boss of the game.

Once all is said and done you will unlock:

- Achievement/Trophy: The Great Seal (47/48)
