**Afternoon**
Either.
**After School**
Spend time with Keisuke
- Do you want to be a doctor (+3)
- (Fortune Rank 7)
**Evening**
Check the Fridge (1x Chilled Taiyaki and 1x Umugi Water)
> Each of the dorm hangouts has a very small additional scene. There isn't enough time to see all 16 of them, especially if you're farming endgame gear. What you can do though, is watch whatever is available that night, then use rewind. This can be repeated multi times for nights that have multiple dorm activities available. Then just do any activity you want like going to Tartarus or going to the arcade.
>
> By using the rewind feature you'll be able to see all 16 of bonus scenes by the end of the game.
Free Evening.
> If you're wanting to farm Dead Moon's Husks, White Nihil Models or Nihil Black Models, now is the perfect time to do it. You can get up to 6 per night of any combination of the 3 base materials, as all the drops are rng.
>
> This strategy isn't mine, I'll post the link for the video, but unfortunately the original video doesn't explain the strategy that well and has more detailed instructions on a random comment instead of in the description. For this reason, I've decided to write my own instructions here to make it easier for you to follow. If the strategy does help you, maybe click on the video, so the OP poster of the strategy gets the view on their video.
>
> The idea is to get Monad Doors to spawn on certain floors, you can do this by abusing Fuuka's Escape Ability and saving your game. Anytime a Monad Door spawns on a floor you don't want, you reload the save and try again, and anytime you get the floor spawn that you want, you use Fuuka's Escape ability to go back to the entrance to save the game. you rinse and repeat this and gradually climb Tartarus until you get to a specific floor. you then keep reloading until we do get a Monad Door to spawn on that specific floor.
>
> Even using this strategy, rng is a major factor you could be at it for an hour, or you could be at it for hours, and this is per night at Tartarus. Dead Moon's Husks, White Nihil Models or Nihil Black Models do not have high drop rate, If you're planning on doing this for multiple nights this could be a significant time sink.
>
> The Strategy\*\*
>
> 1.  You will want to save your game when you first enter Tartarus
> 2.  Start at the 236F and head up to the 237F
> 3.  We don't want a Monad Door on the 237F, if one spawns, reload your save and try again. Keep trying until a Monad Door doesn't spawn
> 4.  Find the stairs to the next level and then use Fuuka's Escape ability to go back to the entrance and save your game
> 5.  Return to the 237F and head up the 238F
> 6.  We don't want a Monad Door on the 238F, if one spawns, reload your save and try again. Keep trying until a Monad Door doesn't spawn
> 7.  Find the stairs to the next level and then use Fuuka's Escape ability to go back to the entrance and save your game
> 8.  Return to the 238F and head up the 239F
> 9.  We don't want a Monad Door on the 239F, if one spawns, reload your save and try again. Keep trying until a Monad Door doesn't spawn
> 10. Find the stairs to the next level and then use Fuuka's Escape ability to go back to the entrance and save your game
> 11. Return to the 239F and head up to the 240F
> 12. We don't want a Monad Door on the 240F, if one spawns, reload your save and try again. Keep trying until a Monad Door doesn't spawn
> 13. the 240F has a striped chest in it, find it, then use Fuuka's Escape ability to return to the entrance and save your game
> 14. Return to the 240F and open the chest, if it doesn't have the base material that you want, reload your save and try again
> 15. When the striped chest does have the base material that you want, then head up to the 241F and use the teleporter to return to the start and save your game
> 16. Return to the 241F and head up the 242F
> 17. We want a Monad Door on 242F, if one doesn't spawn reload your save
> 18. When a Monad Door does spawn on the 242F, enter the Monad Door and defeat the shadow. Check the striped chest, if the base material isn't one you want, reload your save and keep trying until you get one of the one's that you do want
> 19. When you do get the base material that you want, head up to the 243F and use Fuuka's Escape ability to go back to the entrance and save your game
> 20. Return to the 243F and head up to the 244F
> 21. We want a Monad Door on 244F, if one doesn't spawn reload your save
> 22. When a Monad Door does spawn on the 244F, enter the Monad Door and defeat the shadow. Check the striped chest, if the base material isn't one you want, reload your save and keep trying until you get one of the one's that you do want
> 23. Wheb you do get the base material that you want, head up to the 245F
> 24. The 245F to the 247F are old boss floors, head to the 247F, then use the teleporter to return to the entrance and save your game
> 25. Return to the 247F and head up to the 248F
> 26. We want a Monad Door on 248F, if one doesn't spawn reload your save
> 27. When a Monad Door does spawn on the 248F, enter the Monad Door and defeat the shadow. Check the striped chest, if the base material isn't one you want, reload your save and keep trying until you get one of the one's that you do want
> 28. Wheb you do get the base material that you want, head up to the 249F and use Fuuka's Escape ability to return to the entrance and save your game
> 29. Return to the 249F and head up to the 250F
> 30. We don't want a Monad Door on the 250F, if one spawns, reload your save and try again. Keep trying until a Monad Door doesn't spawn
> 31. When a Monad Door doesn't spawn, find the stairs to the next level and the use Fuuka's Escape ability to go back to the entrance and save your game
> 32. There is a high chance of getting a Greedy Shadow on the 251F, which you don't want. You are now going to trigger a Greedy Shadow spawn on a different floor.
> 33. Head to the 225F and head up to the 227F. If a Greedy Shadow doesn't spawn, reload your save and try again
> 34. Once a Greedy Shadow does spawn, use Fuuka's Escape Ability and return to the entrance and save your game
> 35. Return to the 250F and head up the 251F
> 36. We want a Monad Door on 251F, if one doesn't spawn reload your save
> 37. When a Monad Door does spawn on the 251F, enter the Monad Door and defeat the shadow. Check the striped chest, if the base material isn't one you want, reload your save and keep trying until you get one of the one's that you do want
> 38. The 251F also has a striped chest, find it, then use Fuuka's Escape Ability to return to the entrance and save your game
> 39. Return to the 251F and open the striped chest, if the base material isn't one you want, reload your save.
> 40. Keep trying until a base material that you want drops
>
> That is the strategy for farming for Dead Moon's Husks, White Nihil Models or Nihil Black Models. You can repeat this on any Free Evening. If this strategy has helped you, then maybe click on the video, like or comment on it, so the OP of the strategy can get credit for it.
