---
title: Space Jump Boots!
order: 2
---

Alright. Now, just take any route you wish, but you need to get back to the
Main Plaza. (All paths will lead you there, except one which has a Spider Ball
track.) Once you're there, use the half-pipe in the middle. Be sure to be on
the center. You should be able to get on an alcove just below the bridge. The
alcove will have a MISSILE EXPANSION. Now head to the Ruined Shrine. There are
two (!) Missile Expansions to get in this room. First, use the half-pipe to get
to a tunnel that contains a MISSILE EXPANSION. (If you encounter a Spider Ball
track at the end of the tunnel, then you're on the wrong side.) There's also a
Sandstone blockage to a Morph Ball hole here. Blow it open (it's obvious to
see) and collect the MISSILE EXPANSION inside. Alright, we should be done
collecting things here for now, so head to the elevator to the Tallon
Overworld. Once there, make your way to Tallon Canyon. Use the half-pipe here
to reach a high ledge. Past a bridge up here is a Sandstone blockage. Bomb your
way through here until you reach a door that leads to a lush Gully. Even though
this particular room is beautiful, I hate walking through it. It's because of
the lush plant growth that I can't see those darn Zoomers.

Anyway, through this short/lush passage, you will reach a ledge overloooking
the Landing Site. (Notice the blue-ish substance on the wall of the Gully?)
Don't drop down yet. There's a door further left. Just jump across small gaps
when you come across them, and head to the door, which a large room contains
the Space Jump Boots. (Why not call them High Jump Boots? They could've done it
with the same height, except without the double jump. Well, the double jump is
actually useful in crossing large gaps....oh well, maybe that is a reason they
call them Space Jump Boots.)  (Weird, there's even more of that blue-ish
substance here, too...) Head back to your ship in the Landing Site and Save and
restore everything in your stock. Now, before we leave to head BACK TO
PHENDRANA DRIFTS, let's look around for a small Morph Ball tunnel that has a
bunch of Tangle Weeds in it. There should be another MISSILE EXPANSION inside.
Now, save if you want, and head back to Tallon Canyon. Now, before we go any
further, notice the ledges surrounding the waterfall here? Climb up them, and
you'll encounter a red Zoomer, called a Geemer.

NOTE: You can acquire the Space Jump Boots as the first item you get through
means of a glitch. However, I will not tell you how. Look in MonsterERB's topic
in the Metroid Prime board with a title similar to “Space Jump Boots first: How
to get them.” (If it's still there....)

Scan it. The only way to destroy a Geemer is to shoot a Missile. Its carapace
has grown really hard to prevent damage from Beam weapons. Follow the rest of
the path to come to a door. There will be a large plant that is called a
Bloodflower that emits poisonous gas. Scan it, then proceed to shoot at one of
the Sap Sacs above the plant. The Sap Sacs should explode, thus killing that
plant.

The door up ahead, past a pool of water, has a Blast Shield on it. Just do what
you need to do to open it. Ah, the Root Cave. A tall, tower-like room full of
roots that create bridges. At the top is a Plasma Beam door, so, use the bottom
door. Just climb downward to the bottom. Or, if you risk getting stunned when
you land, drop all the way down. A bunch of Beetles will pop out of the ground
down here, but you can ignore them if you want. The door will lead to Transport
Tunnel B. There's a bridge here, and a MISSILE EXPANSION is hidden beneath.
Past this tunnel is an elevator, which will lead to another part of Magmoor
Caverns. Scan the conduit and use the elevator.
