---
title: Thermal Visor
order: 5
---

Anyway, head through the door here, and keep goin' until you reach an elevator.
This one will lead you to the Control Tower. As usual, you have to scan the
conduit next to the elevator if you want to use it. At the top, at the Control
Tower, you will be greeted to another small hoard of Space Pirates. Kill them
all, then you'll be treated to a cutscene showing Flying Space Pirates. Scan
one, then obliterate them. (Use Super Missiles.) After they're all gone, head
forward, and use the elevator to reach Research Lab Aether. (Scan the consuit
to activate it, of course.) Once you enter Lab Aether, you'll see a cutscene
showing a Metroid in a tube. It doesn't seem too life-threatening when in the
tube, but you'd better be careful with them once they're loose. Scan this
Metroid, and it will break out of the tube! Hit it with Missiles as much as you
can to destroy it. (No need to use Ice Beam, since you don't have it.) Now,
apparently, a Space Pirate saw the fight you had with the Metroid, so he'll
come busting through the window here to try to take you out. Heh, tough luck
Spacey. Beat him to death with your Beams. Don't waste any Missiles on him,
he's too weak for them. Anyway, since he broke a window in this room, the rest
of the Lab is accessible to you. There are some more Space Pirates here, so
proceed to destroy them all. Once they're all gone, head back to that room
where you encountered that Metroid, and scan everything. (Also, you could've
done that before you scanned the Metroid...) There are a total of 2 Space
Pirate Logs in this one room.

By now, you should have 50% of your Log Book filled! Just halfway there to
getting 100% scans! Alright. Drop down to the next floor. Scan the computers
here, and you should be able to obtain another Pirate Log. Keep going down the
catwalk, until you encounter another small catwalk above the one you're on.
Jump up to it, and roll through the catwalk using the Morph Ball, and grab the
MISSILE EXPANSION at the end. Head back to the catwalk you were on, and at the
bottom, scan the two computers. (nothing will be added to your Log Book,
though) Now, at the bottom floor, scan EVERYTHING, just like you did in Lab
Hydra. Once all the scanning is done, you should've obtained around 2 more
Pirate Logs. There's also an ENERGY TANK inside a stasis pod. Simply break the
pod with a Missile and collect the prize. Alright. The rest should just be
Metroids in stasis pods, so let's move on. Use the Wave Beam door in the floor
around here to continue. You will encounter a couple of Ice Beetles here in
this tunnel, so scan one before you take them out. I suggest you use a charged
Wave Beam shot to take them out, because if you just fire at them, they'll
burrow back into the ground, thus making it tougher than the normal Beetle.

Anyway, once the two are gone, head into the door here to enter the Research
Core. As soon as you enter, a Space Pirate will detect you, so destroy him.
After that, two Flying Pirates will come up. You know what to do to them.
(Super Missiles) Once you defeat them, this room should be free of Space
Pirates. Now, scan the computer on this top floor to terminate the central tank
control circuit connection. This is step one to unlocking the Thermal Visor.
Proceed down the room using the pathways until you come to another computer.
Scan this one to terminate the central tank auxiliary circuit connection. This
is step two. Finally, scan a certain computer at the bottom floor to terminate
the central tank main circ connection. Now, you can grab the THERMAL VISOR. You
can now switch to the Thermal Visor by pressing down on the D-Pad! Now, the
power to the whole base will shut off, meaning you'll be in complete darkness.
O_O (In case you're wondering, there are no Pirate Logs to download in the
Research Core.)

Some Shadow Pirates will immediately start attacking you. You actually can't
see these guys now, because the one that attacked you right when you entered
this place had a dysfunctional cloaking device. Since you have the Thermal
Visor, you can see these guys now. Proceed to destroy them, and get the hell
out of there, because Metroids are starting to break free of their holding
places. Once you get to the door at the top, you'll notice it won't
open.....switch to your Thermal Visor. There should be an icon beside the door.
This is a power conduit. In order to activate these, you'll first have to see
them with your Thermal Visor, and to actually activate 'em, shoot at it with
your Wave Beam. Now, in the tunnel ahead, some Sentry Drones should replace the
Ice Beetles, so scan one, then kill these things with charged Wave Beam shots.
Now, let's head back to the Hydra lab. At the top floor, there is a pod made of
Cordite. Blast it with a Super Missile to unveil a MISSILE EXPANSION. Now,
let's get the damn hell out of this base and head into the Save Station at the
Ruined Courtyard. Whew! (remember, you have to wear your new visor so you can
see the Shadow Pirates, and the way out.) End subsection.
