<<---------------------------------PRE-JOURNEY-------------------------------->>



If you have already Quick Saved in the game, the option to load it will be
available. Otherwise, let us Venture Forth!

Go ahead and create a new adventure log. Select which log you want, then make a
name for yourself. In the NES version of the game, your stat growth differs
depending on your name, but not so much on the Switch. So choose any name you
want that's eight characters or less, select your message speed (which also
affects battle speed), select your volume levels, and you are all set to go!

Note: Message speed and volume levels can be changed by selecting the Misc.
option in your Main Menu and then selecting Settings.



<<----------------------------------TANTEGEL---------------------------------->>



You will start with a talk between the Hero and the King. Your mission is to
retrieve the Sphere of Light from the Dragonlord and restore light to the dark
land of Alefgard... once more? Apparently this is not the first time Alefgard
has been the land of darkness.

It looks as if the Hero has a big nose. And the plume on the helmet looks like
the Tanooki Tail from Super Mario 3. Mario! Is that you? You are in the wrong
game!

Anyway, once you have control of the Hero, open the chests for 120G, a TORCH and
a MAGIC KEY. Use the Magic Key to unlock the door and go downstairs.

Go south a bit and you should see three pots. Search the left pot for a
MEDICINAL HERB. The guy behind the counter to the south will restore your MP for
free. Then you could use your Heal spell, talk to the guy again to refill your
MP again, and repeat until you are at maximum HP and MP, therefore saving money
on Inn prices. I do not bother with this method because staying at an Inn is
faster and the cost is so cheap that I prefer the saved time more.

Equip your Bamboo Spear and leave Tantegel Castle through either the north or
south exit. You are now on the overworld screen. You can view your map now by
pressing X. Go east to the Town of Tantegel.

 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| TOWN OF TANTEGEL                                                             |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| EQUIPMENT SHOP                            ITEM SHOP                          |
| -------------------------------           -----------------------------      |
| Bamboo Spear               10G            Medicinal Herb           10G       |
| Oaken Club                 60G            Torch                     8G       |
| Copper Sword              180G            Dragon Scale             20G       |
| Plain Clothes              20G                                               |
| Leather Suit               70G                                               |
| Leather Shield             90G                                               |
|                                           HOLY WATER SHOP                    |
|                                           ----------------------------       |
| INN:                        3G            Holy Water               12G       |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| Vault                                                                        |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/


Just north of where you enter is an equipment shop. Buy a Leather Suit for 70G,
then go south to the Inn. The drawer in the southeast room of the Inn has a
CHIMAERA WING. Next to that room is the Vault. Talk to the lady and she will
deposit or withdraw gold or items for you.

East of the Inn and across the bridge is an item shop. Buy a Dragon Scale for
20G. You will have to equip it manually. Then leave town, because it's time to
grind for a bit. You can save 60G to buy the Oaken Club, but personally I go
straight for 180G so I can buy a Copper Sword.

Notice the building with the locked door. This is the Holy Water Shop.
Unfortunately you do not have access to this building right now, but remember it
for later.



<<----------------------------------GRIND 1----------------------------------->>



Walk around a bit making sure you stay close to the castle. In this area are
Slimes and She-Slimes. Fight them until you get to level 2. You can stay here to
reach level 3, but once I'm level 2 I like to go to the hills southwest of the
castle so I can start fighting Drackys. Do NOT go to the southern part of the
hills; the monsters there are stronger and they will kill you. If your HP falls
to 7 or less, go straight to the Inn, sleep and come back.

At level 3 you learn the Heal spell, which costs 3MP per use. Now I like to go
to a patch of hills northwest of Tantegel Castle and south of a cave surrounded
by sand. You can fight Ghosts here. Ghosts dodge more than the average monster.
Keep fighting until you have your Copper Sword.

At level 4 you learn the Sizz spell which does 16-20 damage if successful.

Do NOT cross the bridge southwest of the cave in the desert yet. Instead, earn
90G and head back to the Town of Tantegel to buy and equip a Leather Shield. Be
sure to have a Torch in your inventory. Torches light dark dungeons and do not
wear out until you leave the dungeon.

You should now be equipped as listed below.

 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
| RECOMMENDED LEVEL: 5                                                         |
|                                                                              |
| CURRENT EQUIPMENT                                                            |
| ------------------------------------------                                   |
|                                                                              |
| Weapon: Copper Sword (Town of Tantegel)                                      |
| Armour: Leather Armour (Town of Tantegel)                                    |
| Shield: Leather Shield (Town of Tantegel)                                    |
| Accessory: Dragon Scale (Town of Tantegel)                                   |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/




<<-------------------------ERDRICK'S CAVE (OPTIONAL)-------------------------->>



The cave surrounded by sand is called Erdrick's Cave. This cave is entirely
optional and has no monsters or treasure, so you can skip it if you want.



Floor B1



Use your Torch, head south and take the first path east all the way,
go north a couple squares and continue east. Follow the eastern wall south to
the stairs at the southeast corner of the floor.



Floor B2



Follow the mostly linear path to find the Stone Tablet. You need three sacred
artefacts to reach the island where the Dragonlord's Castle is. Erdrick
entrusted these items to three Sages, whose descendants continue to guard them.
That's all for this cave, so let's get out of here.



<<---------------------------------GALENHOLM---------------------------------->>



After leaving Erdrick's Cave, head northwest to a settlement called Galenholm.
There is nothing to do in this town other than rest at the Inn and max out your
stock of Medicinal Herbs.


 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| GALENHOLM                                                                    |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| EQUIPMENT SHOP                            ITEM SHOP                          |
| --------------------------------          -----------------------------      |
| Oaken Club                   60G          Medicinal Herb            10G      |
| Copper Sword                180G          Torch                      8G      |
| Iron Axe                    560G          Dragon Scale              20G      |
| Leather Suit                 70G                                             |
| Chain Mail                  300G                                             |
| Iron Shield                 800G          INN:                       6G      |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/




<<----------------------------------GRIND 2----------------------------------->>



Once you are at level 5, head south to the hills just past the bridge. Here you
will want to grind 560G for the Iron Axe and 300G for the Chain Mail. You should
not purchase the Iron Shield because you can get a free one later. If you run
out of Medicinal Herbs and your HP is low, simply go back to Galennholm to rest
and restock.

There's another place you can grind. Remember the hills southwest of Tantegel
where you fought Drackys at level 2? If you go to the southernmost row of hills,
you can fight the same monsters as in the grinding spot mentioned in the
previous paragraph. Use the Town of Tantegel to rest and restock.

In these hills you can find Ghosts, Prestidigitators, Drackolytes and Scorpions.
Prestidigitators and Drackolytes can cast Sizz. Do not bother with physical
attacks on the Scorpions; use Sizz instead to one-shot them. In fact, Scorpions
are the only monsters I ever use Sizz on. I recommend getting the Iron Axe, the
Chain Mail and level 7 before attempting to head south of the hills, because you
may run into tougher monsters called Skeletons.

At level 7 you learn Snooze, with a cost of 2MP per use, which comes in handy
when dealing with Skeletons. Also, if you have the Iron Axe, you no longer need
to cast Sizz ever again, now that Scorpions can easily be taken out with
physical attacks.

South of these hills is the Craggy Cave. You probably saw it before as you were
grinding near Tantegel. You could bring a torch and 6 herbs and go here now as
the cave is not very difficult, if you are feeling brave or have played the game
before. But in this walkthrough I'm going to guide you to another village first.



<<-------------------------------------KOL------------------------------------>>



Starting from Galenholm, walk east. Instead of walking south to Tantegel,
continue walking east. Cross the bridge, head southeast and cross another
bridge. From here, head north until you see a village. This is the village of
Kol.


 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| KOL                                                                          |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| EQUIPMENT SHOP                            ITEM SHOP                          |
| -------------------------------           -----------------------------      |
| Copper Sword               180G           Medicinal Herb            10G      |
| Iron Axe                   560G           Torch                      8G      |
| Iron Armour               1000G           Dragon Scale              20G      |
| Full Plate Armour         3000G           Chimaera Wing             24G      |
| Leather Shield              90G                                              |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| SECRET ITEM:     Faerie Flute             INN:                      12G      |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/



Head northwest in this town and you should see a sparkle about four steps south
of a square of water. Walk over to it and press A to search the area. You will
find the FAERIE FLUTE. Search the drawers north of there to find PLAIN CLOTHES
and a SEED OF STRENGTH. Seeds give permanent stat boosts to the Hero which is
really nice. Might as well use the seeds right away as the Hero is your only
party member.

Next to the drawers is a girl who will give you a Puff-Puff Massage for 20G. Ah,
the classic Puff-Puff Massage. It has been a staple of Dragon Quest ever since
it was released on the Famicom in 1986. Sadly, it was censored in the 1989 NES
version. Oh well.

That's all you can do in this town for now. Do not worry about getting Iron
Armour yet. The Craggy Cave coming up is pretty easy as it is. Unless you plan
to skip this cave (not recommended), make sure you have six Herbs and a Torch
before heading out.

If you are at level 9 you do not need the Torch because you will be given access
to the Glow spell, at a cost of 2MP per use. The upside to using this spell is
that it brightens a wider area than a Torch. The downsides are that the spell
wears off after so many steps and it costs MP. After 132 steps, the amount of
light you have will be reduced, and after another 132 steps, the effect of Glow
will be completely gone.



<<----------------------------CRAGGY CAVE (OPTIONAL)-------------------------->>



This part is optional but highly recommended. Go back to Galenholm and head
south across the bridge. Continue south, then go east past a poisonous swamp and
you should see a cave. This is Craggy Cave, formally called Rocky Mountain Cave.
Quick Save before you enter. Be careful as you do not want to get stuck in the
cave without MP or a Torch.



Floor B1



There are two levels to the cave. You start off in the upper level with Ghosts,
Prestidigitators, Scorpions and Lunaticks. Lunaticks are even easier than
Skeletons, so no worries.

Once you are in the cave, go east at the first intersection. east again at the
second one, then east again at the third one. Follow the path south, then west
until you hit water. Go to the northwest corner of the water to find a chest
with ~340G.

Walk south of the water and follow the path west. Head north at the
intersection, then east at the next one. You should see a hallway with pillars
going west. Follow it, then swing north to the stairs.



Floor B2



The second floor has tougher monsters, with Skeletons, Fightgeists (they can
cast Sizz), Drackymas (they can cast Heal and Sizz), Drohl Drones, and the
dreaded Legerdemen. Legerdemen can cast Sizz and Snooze. I have bad memories
about these monsters, who were called Warlocks in the NES version. Basically,
they can put you to sleep and cast Sizz over and over until you die. Thankfully,
it does not happen that often.

First start going east. Skip the first room to the north and go to the second
room which has a chest containing ~535G. The third room has a chest* containing
a TORCH. Follow the path east and south, then take the first path going west.
Continue west to the corner (ignoring the path south), north to the wall
(ignoring the path west), then head east and south to a room with a chest
containing an IRON SHIELD, which you should equip right away.

* If you want a Choker, approach the chest with the Torch inside while holding a
full inventory. If you already took the Torch, the chest will respawn upon
exiting the cave. Attempt to open it. If the item is a Torch, refuse to throw
something away, which will put the Torch back inside the chest. Repeat this over
and over again until you are offered a CHOKER. You must throw something away in
order to receive it. You can sell this cursed item for a hefty 1200G. Once you
take the Choker, the chest will no longer respawn.

Head west, skipping the south path you just came from to find another room with
a chest containing a WARRIOR'S RING, the second and final accessory. Continue
west and all the way south to a room with two chests. They contain a SEED OF
STRENGTH and a SEED OF MAGIC.

That's all the treasure you can get in this cave. Time to get out of here. From
where you are, go north and take the first path east. Follow this path south to
the wall, west to the wall and finally north to the stairs.



Floor B1



Follow the linear path past the pillars, then head south and west. Take the
first path leading south, then take the first path going east. You should be at
the water. Follow the path east and north until you hit a wall, then head west
until you hit a corner. Follow this wall clockwise until you reach the stairs.



<<--------------------------------QUAGMIRE CAVE------------------------------->>



If you chose to skip the Craggy Cave, go back to Galenholm and buy an Iron
Shield.

I recommend getting to level 9 before doing this next part. Make sure you are
equipped as listed below.


 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
| RECOMMENDED LEVEL: 9                                                         |
|                                                                              |
| CURRENT EQUIPMENT                                                            |
| ---------------------------------------------------                          |
|                                                                              |
| Weapon: Iron Axe (Galenholm or Kol)                                          |
| Armour: Chain Mail (Galenholm) or Iron Armour (Kol)                          |
| Shield: Iron Shield (Galenholm or Craggy Cave)                               |
| Accessory: Dragon Scale (most Item Shops)                                    |
| Accessory: Warrior's Ring (Craggy Cave)(optional)                            |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/



South of Kol is a poisonous swamp leading to Quagmire Cave. Giggity. It used to
be called the Swamp Cave. Let's go there now. Keep an eye on your HP as you go
through the swamp. Inside the cave, you can use Glow or a Torch if you want but
you do not even need those. Just go straight south along the long path until you
hit a wall, then go east, south, east, south, and finally west to the stairs.



<<---------------------------------RIMULDAR----------------------------------->>



You are now in the southeastern area of Alefgard. Roaming south of the cave are
Skeletons, Legerdemen, and two new monsters, the Iron Scorpion (good Resilience)
and the Bewarewolf. Iron Scorpions may use their turn to defend, which means you
do half the damage with your weapon or your spells that turn.

Keep heading south along the east coast until you see a town to the west. Walk
south around the impassable mountains to get there. Do not go further south
because there are tougher monsters down there. Welcome to the town of Rimuldar!


 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| RIMULDAR                                                                     |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| EQUIPMENT SHOP                            ITEM SHOP                          |
| -------------------------------           ------------------------------     |
| Copper Sword               180G           Medicinal Herb             10G     |
| Iron Axe                   560G           Torch                       8G     |
| Steel Broadsword          1500G           Chimaera Wing              24G     |
| Iron Armour               1000G                                              |
| Full Plate Armour         3000G                                              |
| Magic Armour              7700G                                              |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| MAGIC KEY SHOP                            INN:                       24G     |
| -------------------------------                                              |
| Magic Key                   16G                                              |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/



Go to the Equipment Shop and buy the Steel Broadsword for 1500G. Also, you can
buy an Iron Armour if you do not have one yet. Personally, I skip the Iron
Armour and go straight for the Full Plate Armour. Do not worry if you cannot
afford Full Plate Armour or Iron Armour right now. At level 10, Chain Mail is
fine for the monsters just outside of Rimuldar.

North of the Equipment Shop is a merchant who serves as the town's Item Shop.
West of him are two rooms. Search the drawer in the right one for a CHIMAERA
WING. Now go back to where you entered the town. If you hug the water, you can
walk north and west around the town to another shop. This shop sells... Magic
Keys! Finally!

In the Magic Key Shop, search the pots for ~120G and a SEED OF RESILIENCE. Buy 6
Keys from the shop owner, then leave and re-enter the town. Inside the Inn is a
chest that's blocked by two doors. Open both doors to get a SEED OF LIFE. Buy 2
more Magic Keys, then leave town.



<<------------------------------------GRIND 3--------------------------------->>



At this point I recommend doing another grinding session to earn 3000G, which
you will need for the Full Plate Armour. Forget about the Magic Armor... it's
really not worth it. Both armours have the exact same defense. The difference is
that Magic Armour heals 1 HP every four steps and reduces spell and fire damage
by about 25%. I recommend grinding on the hills just south of Rimuldar. Make
sure you stay on the northern part of the hills. Once you have your Full Plate
Armour, you can safely go further south, but do not go west of the bridge south
of Rimuldar yet.

You should be at least level 10 by now. At level 10 you learn Fizzle, which, if
successful, prevents monsters from casting spells at a cost of 2MP. I wouldn't
bother using it on the Legerdemen, since they can be beaten easily by this
point. Same goes for the Skeleton Scrappers, because you can do more damage to
them than their Heal spell can restore. Same goes for the Scarewolves because
when they can be two-shotted, a Fizzle cast is a wasted turn when you or the
monster could be attacking. I usually do not use Fizzle at all, save for one
particular monster later in the game.

Further south you run into new monsters. Scarewolves can cast Fizzle, Skeleton
Scrappers can cast Heal, and Gold Golems have high HP and can defend. Also, Gold
Golems drop 650G a pop. which will be coming in handy as you will soon need
24600G for a new sword and shield, or 14800G if you want to skip the sword.

At level 12 you learn the Evac spell, which instantly warps you out of dungeons
at a cost of 6MP. Now I recommend you cross the bridge to the south and grind on
the hills. You should come across a new monster. Chimaeras have good attack but
by now they should be outmatched.

At level 13 you learn the Zoom spell, which warps you to Tantegel Castle at a
cost of only 1 MP. This spell can save your life. It doesn't work in dungeons;
you have to Evac first. You can take a break from grinding at this point because
you are now powerful enough to get through the next dungeon. Use Zoom or a
Chimaera Wing to get back to Tantegel fast and save yourself time from all
the weak encounters.


 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
| RECOMMENDED LEVEL: 13                                                        |
|                                                                              |
| CURRENT EQUIPMENT                                                            |
| ---------------------------------------------------                          |
|                                                                              |
| Weapon: Steel Broadsword (Rimuldar)                                          |
| Armour: Full Plate Armour (Kol, Rimuldar)                                    |
| Shield: Iron Shield (Galenholm or Craggy Cave)                               |
| Accessory: Dragon Scale (most Item Shops)                                    |
| Accessory: Warrior's Ring (Craggy Cave)(optional)                            |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/




<<-----------------------------------SUNSTONE--------------------------------->>



On the northeast side of the Town of Tantegel, there is a shop behind a locked
door... doesn't seem like a great way to do business, if their front door is
always locked... anyway, they sell you Holy Water for 12G a pop. Holy Water
removes encounters with monsters much weaker than you, which removes the
inconvenience of getting into battles that give you almost nothing in experience
and gold. Basically, it's a time saver. Unfortunately Holy Water doesn't work in
dungeons, and it wears off after so many steps.

Enter Tantegel Castle and open the door to the treasure room. In the chests you
get ~345G, MAGIC KEY, SEED OF MAGIC, and SEED OF AGILITY. Go north and east and
open the locked door. There's a Magic Key shop in the northeast corner that
sells keys at 24G a pop. Also, you can walk outside the perimeter of the castle
in this area. Go one square east of the eastern Castle wall, then head south.
When you hit water, you can afford to go one more square east, then head south
to the stairs.

In the drawers to the right are a MEDICINAL HERB and a SEED OF LIFE. And in the
chest you get the SUNSTONE. Alright! One artefact found, two more to go.




<<---------------------------------GALEN'S GRAVE------------------------------>>



You need 2 keys at least for the next dungeon. Once you are all set, head
northwest to Galenholm. When you get to the settlement, use a key on the door to
the big building. In this building are three chests containing a COPPER SWORD, a
TORCH and ~630G. If you use a Magic Key and talk to the old lady in the purple
dress, she will give you another Magic Key. Position yourself directly north of
the old lady. Go west one square, then go north into the blackness. Follow the
pathway and talk to the guy to gain access to the stairs. You have just entered
Galen's Grave.



Floor B1



Go east to the wall, then go north. Take the first path going east all the way
to the wall. Next, head north and west to three chests. Open them for a SEED OF
LIFE, 535G and a MAGIC KEY. Head back east and this time go all the way south.
Use a Magic Key on the door, then follow the path to the stairs.



Floor B2



You will find yourself in the northeast corner of this floor. You can choose to
go west or south; either way, make it to the stairs on the southwest corner. Be
sure to keep your HP above 50 for the next floors.



Floor B3



On this floor there are some new monsters. Spitegeists can cast Sizz, Snooze and
Fizzle. Drohl Diabolists can cast Snooze. Raving Lunaticks can cast Heal and
Sizz. And the hardest monster in this dungeon, the Skeleton Soldier, can cast
Heal and also does pretty good physical damage. Anyway, head north, taking the
path to the right to find the stairs.



Floor B4



Make your way to the east side of the room and climb the stairs in the centre.



Floor B3



In this room, open the chest to receive the LYRE OF IRE. This item is not one of
Erdrick's artefacts, but it can be traded for one. You are done in this dungeon
so cast Evac to get back to the overworld.



<<--------------------------------STAFF OF RAIN------------------------------->>



Zoom to Tantegel and walk eastward to Kol.

West of Kol is a path you may not have checked out yet. Follow the path as it
arcs northward, enter the Shrine and go down the stairs. Give the old man the
Lyre of Ire and he will give you access to a chest which contains the STAFF OF
RAIN. Alright! Two artefacts collected, one more to go. At this point I would
Zoom back to Tantegel Town to deposit the Staff of Rain and the Sunstone in the
Vault next to the Inn.



<<-----------------------------------GRIND 4---------------------------------->>



Unfortunately, it's time to grind again. I recommend fighting in Gold Golem
territory far to the south of Galenholm, because you are going to need gold.
Cross the bridge and head south into the desert where you will see a town. Do
not attempt to enter the town as it is destroyed and filled with powerful
monsters. Instead, do your grinding in the desert, making sure you stay north of
the town.

If you want the next sword upgrade and the best shield in the game, earn 24600G.
If you choose to wait until you get the ultimate sword in the game, you only
need 14800G. Also, you need to journey to a new town that sells this new
equipment. I recommend getting to level 14 for the next part.



<<-------------------------------ROAD TO CANTLIN------------------------------>>



Once you have earned your gold, make sure you sleep at the Inn and have the
Faerie Flute with you along with maximum Medicinal Herbs and Magic Keys. Deposit
all your gold at the Vault and save with the King of Tantegel. This is going to
be a little bit of a walk through rough monster terrain.

Once you are past Chimaera territory, you will have to flee from every single
battle (except for Metal Slimes). I recommend Quick Saving after every couple
battles. At level 14 it is highly unlikely that you will die during the walk. If
you do die, do not worry. Your money is safe in the Vault.

Head back to the desert to the far south of Galenholm. Continue south until you
reach the sea, then go east across the bridge. Continue to follow the path
northeast, ignoring the next bridge. Eventually you should come to a bridge with
a poisonous swamp next to it. Cross the bridge and approach the town to the
south but keep at least four steps away from it. Heal up to maximum and Quick
Save your game. Now try to go into the town. It's mini-boss time!

 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
| GOLEM - 150HP                                                                |
\                                                                              /
 >----------------------------------------------------------------------------<
/                                                                              \
| If you have the Faerie Flute, you should be able to defeat Golem without     |
| getting a scratch on you. Use the "Item" option and select your Faerie Flute |
| to lull the Golem to sleep. If he stays asleep, attack him. If he wakes up,  |
| use the Faerie Flute again. He will never get a turn in to attack. In the    |
| NES version, the Golem could wake up and attack the Hero in the same turn,   |
| but not so much on the Switch.                                               |
|                                                                              |
| For defeating him you get 2500 EXP and some pocket change. Now you can access|
| a new town. Victory!                                                         |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/


At this point you should be at least close to getting level 15, at which you
will learn the Holy Protection spell. It wipes weak encounters off the map for
64 steps but does not work in dungeons. It is the same as using a Holy Water.



<<-----------------------------------CANTLIN---------------------------------->>



Enter the town. Welcome to Cantlin! The Equipment Shop is south of the
northeastern stairs. There are two other equipment shops that sell equipment you
could have gotten in other towns. You need a key to access the shop as well as
the adjoining Magic Key Shop. The northwestern stairs lead to a Vault where you
can withdraw your gold. The Holy Water Shop is at the southeast corner of town.

Note that you cannot buy Medicinal Herbs or Torches here.

 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| CANTLIN                                                                      |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| EQUIPMENT SHOP                              MAGIC KEY SHOP                   |
| -----------------------------               ----------------------------     |
| Fire Blade              9800G               Magic Key                32G     |
| Silver Shield          14800G                                                |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| INN:                     50G                HOLY WATER SHOP                  |
|                                             ----------------------------     |
|                                             Holy Water               12G     |
| Vault                                                                        |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/


If you chose to grind 14800G and wait for the ultimate weapon, buy the Silver
Shield. If you chose to grind 24600G, get the Fire Blade as well. You can use
the Fire Blade as an item during battle to shoot flames at monsters. I really
do not recommend doing that, as your physical attack should be enough.

Search the drawer at the Inn for a SEED OF RESILIENCE. South of the Inn, use a
Magic Key to get to a drawer which holds... a MAGIC KEY. Also, the guy in here
talks about previously owning a shop in Damdara, the destroyed town in the
desert that you passed by earlier. Go south to a narrow hallway leading to the
eastern part of the town, then go north a bit to find a drawer with a SEED OF
MAGIC inside. That should be it for Cantlin. Zoom back to Tantegel, heal at the
Inn and save with the King.



<<------------------------SAVE THE PRINCESS (OPTIONAL)------------------------>>



Now it is time to save Princess Gwaelin… if you want. Yup, this quest is
entirely optional. You do not have to save her to beat the game! Leave her to
rot for all the game cares; as long as you defeat the Dragonlord, you will get
the end-game credits. If you save her though, the ending will be a little
different, and more satisfying in my opinion.

Leave Tantegel and cast Holy Protection if you want to wipe out monster
encounters. Head east to the cave tunnel you previously travelled through when
going to Rimuldar. Once inside, cast Glow, then head east and south. Stay along
the eastern wall until you get to a locked door. Use a Magic Key, then continue
until you are just a few steps away from a dragon blocking a room entrance.
Quick Save here, then talk to the dragon for a battle.

 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
| GREEN DRAGON - 150 HP                                                        |
\                                                                              /
 >----------------------------------------------------------------------------<
/                                                                              \
| The Green Dragon has a physical attack and a fire attack. Simply heal when   |
| you go below 40 HP and attack when you do not, and the dragon should go down |
| easy enough.                                                                 |
|                                                                              |
| For defeating the Green Dragon you get 950 EXP and some gold. You saved      |
| Princess Gwaelin! Victory!                                                   |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/


Unfortunately, in the Switch version of the game there is no "But thou must."
Got to go back to the good old NES for that one. Oh well. I'm just a tad
disappointed I guess, that they would change an iconic line like that. Similar
to how they changed "...But you're still hungry" in the DS version of Chrono
Trigger. Damn you Square-Enix! Just kidding. Anyway, I'm digressing. Where was
I?

Oh yes, bringing Princess Gwaelin back home to Tantegel. You can Evac/Zoom back
if you want. Talk to the King and Gwaelin will give you the PRINCESS'S PLEDGE.
It tells you how many steps north, south, east or west Tantegel Castle is to
you, like a medieval GPS. Also, it tells you how much experience you need to get
to the next level.



<<-------------------------------LEGENDARY ARMOUR----------------------------->>



Remember Damdara, the town in the southern desert that was destroyed by
monsters? Remember that guy in Cantlin who was talking about a shop he used to
run there? It's time to enter that town.

In Damdara you can run into Cosmic Chimaeras who can cast Midheal. They can only
be taken out with physical attacks. Tearwolves do not have spells. Also, you
have Green Dragons, although be aware that these dragons have far less HP than
the dragon that is/was guarding Princess Gwaelin. Vis Magers can cast Fizzle and
a new spell, Sizzle, a more powerful Sizz spell which can do massive damage to
you. I have been killed more than once by these guys, especially when they get
the first move on you. Keep your health high, 70+ HP and Quick Save after every
battle and you should be fine.

Anyway, from where you entered, head south, then east across town. You should be
able to see a sparkle, indicating an hidden item. Approach the sparkle but stay
a few squares away. Heal up to max, and make sure you have at least 56 MP,
enough for a Fizzle cast and 18 Heal casts. If you do not, sleep at the Inn in
Galenholm and come back. Along with your Herbs, you should have at least 24
Heals to work with. Quick Save here; now you are ready to take on the guard of
this treasure, a Knight Aberrant.

 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
| KNIGHT ABERRANT - 78 HP - 4 MP - Can cast Snooze                             |
\                                                                              /
 >----------------------------------------------------------------------------<
/                                                                              \
| Remember when I said there is one particular monster in the game that I use  |
| Fizzle on? This is the monster. Cast Fizzle to prevent the Knight Aberrant   |
| from casting Snooze on you. It is guaranteed to work the first time. Attack  |
| and Heal if you go below 55 HP. Try not to use Medicinal Herbs until you run |
| out of MP. Even if the Knight Aberrant is constantly attacking, you should be|
| regaining a bit more HP than the monster can take, giving you a chance to hit|
| him once every few turns.                                                    |
|                                                                              |
| After 3 or 4 hits, the monster should go down, giving you access to a secret |
| sparkly treasure. Victory!                                                   |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/


For your troubles you get the mighty ERDRICK'S ARMOUR, the ultimate armour of
the game. Its defense is higher than all other armours. It lowers the damage of
Sizz, Sizzle and Fire attacks by 25%. It makes you invulnerable to the poisonous
swamp and damage tiles. On top of that, it heals 1 HP per step. This armour is
obscene.



<<------------------------------------GRIND 5--------------------------------->>



On your run to Cantlin, you passed by some new monsters. Just south and west of
Damdara, you have Death Scorpions, Knight Errants who can cast Fizzle, Skeleton
Soldiers who can cast Heal, and Dark Skeletons that dodge a lot.

If you go further south, near the water but before crossing the bridge to go
east, you will run into some tougher monsters. Most notably, the Metal Slime! He
has more Resilience than the Dragonlord himself. Holy hell. Unfortunately for
him, the Metal Slime has the strength and spell capacity of a Drackolyte. Also,
he runs away a lot. Metal Slimes give 775 EXP a pop if you are lucky enough to
kill one. This is a favourite spot to grind for the whole game.

Also far south you have Hocus Chimaeras, who can cast Snooze and Sizz on you, as
well as Heal.

Near Cantlin are the same monsters you already met at Damdara.

At level 17 you will learn Midheal, an absolute necessity for beating the game.



<<--------------------------------MARK OF ERDRICK----------------------------->>



Once you get to level 17, go back to Cantlin. Notice the building in the centre
of the town. If you go inside the building (just walk into the side of it) and
exit south, you will see two doors followed by a pathway lined with damage
tiles. Before you had Erdrick's Armour, each tile would deal 15 damage to you.
But because you have the armour equipped, the tiles now do no damage at all.

Unlock one of the doors and walk harmlessly over to a person who will tell you
where to search for the last artefact. Tantegel is 70 steps north and 40 steps
west of the artefact.

If you have it, go outside and use the Princess's Pledge. The coordinates the
man gave in Cantlin are Tantegel's coordinates relative to the artefact. Match
them up with your location and you find the artefact.

Go north from Cantlin, cross the bridge and head southwest. Cross the next
bridge you see and head southeast to a huge poisonous swamp. Go to the east side
of the swamp and keep using Princess's Pledge to find the MARK OF ERDRICK. A "!"
will appear above the Hero's head once he's found the right spot. That's three
out of three. Zoom back to Tantegel, rest up at the Inn and save with the King.



<<----------------------------------RAINBOW DROP------------------------------>>



Head over to the Vault, deposit your Faerie Flute and Princess's Pledge.
Withdraw the Sunstone and the Staff of Rain. Also, make sure you have the Mark
of Erdrick. Now you need to walk to the Holy Sanctum south of Rimuldar. Cast
Holy Protection the whole way to avoid all the monster encounters.

Head inside and go downstairs to find a priest. Talk to him in order to give him
the Sunstone and the Staff of Rain. He will offer them to the Almighty Goddess.
A chest will appear; open it to receive the RAINBOW DROP. Leave the Sanctum.

Northwest of the Sanctum and west of Rimuldar is a narrow peninsula. Go to the
very tip of the peninsula and use the Rainbow Drop to make a bridge appear. Now
you have access to the Dragonlord's Castle. Return to Rimuldar if you need to
rest at the Inn or stock up on Medicinal Herbs and Magic Keys. Otherwise,
continue to the Dragonlord's Castle.



<<--------------------------------LEGENDARY SWORD----------------------------->>



On this floor and the next floor down, you will be fighting the same monsters
you saw at Damdara, including Knight Aberrants.

From the entrance, head west and follow the path to the Throne room that is
between two other rooms with staircases that lead nowhere. Search the sparkle
behind the Throne to find a hidden stairway leading to the next level.



Floor B1



Use a Magic Key on the door and follow the linear path west, south, then east.
Take the northeast path to the stairs.



Floor B2



On this floor you can fight Blue Dragons, who attack and breathe fire. I
recommend using the Snooze-Flee tactic on the Stone Golems instead of fighting
them. From the stairs, head west and follow the path. Take the north path at the
intersection. When you come to two paths heading south, take the western path
south to some stairs.



Floor B3



Northwest of the stairs are two chests containing 502G and a MEDICINAL HERB. Go
east past the stairs you just came from, also passing the stairs in the
northeast corner and head west and down the next stairs you see.



Floor B4



Walk directly south and you should see two staircases, one ascending and one
descending. The descending stairs leads to a room that loops endlessly. Take the
ascending stairs.



Floor B3



Go southeast to the stairs and take them up to the next floor.



Floor B2



Take the stairs right next to you.



Floor B1



Finally, head north and open the chest to find the best weapon in the game,
ERDRICK'S SWORD.


 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| RECOMMENDED LEVEL: 17                                                        |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| CURRENT EQUIPMENT:                                                           |
| ----------------------------------------------------------                   |
|                                                                              |
| Weapon: Erdrick's Sword (Dragonlord's Castle)                                |
| Armour: Erdrick's Armour (Damdara)                                           |
| Shield: Silver Shield (Cantlin)                                              |
| Accessory: Dragon Scale (Most Item Shops) (optional)                         |
| Accessory: Warrior's Ring (Craggy Cave) (optional)                           |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
| Note: The defense boost the Dragon Scale provides is negligible at this point|
| in the game. If you prefer item space, you can get rid of both accessories   |
| now.                                                                         |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/




<<----------------------------------FINAL GRIND------------------------------->>



The only thing left to do in the game is to meet up with the final two monsters
you haven't seen yet and beat the Dragonlord. It may be possible to beat him at
level 17, but it will be very difficult to do. Level 20 is a more normal level
to take on the Dragonlord with. I like grinding south of Damdara where the Metal
Slimes are.

At Level 19 you learn the final spell, Sizzle. It can deal 50-65 damage to
monsters. It's pretty much useless. Many of the tougher monsters have a
resistance to Sizzle. Your MP is better spent using Midheal.



<<-----------------------------DRAGONLORD'S CASTLE---------------------------->>



Once you feel like you are ready to take on the Dragonlord, Zoom to Tantegel,
rest at the Inn, max out on your Medicinal Herbs and Magic Keys and save with
the King. There is no saving after beating the Dragonlord. Make a pit stop in
Rimuldar if you'd like.

Head towards the Dragonlord's Castle. As you go through the Castle a second
time, try to conserve as much MP as possible, and feel free to use all of your
Herbs if need be.

Go to the Throne room, search the sparkle and go down the stairs.



Floor B1



Use a Magic Key on the door and follow the linear path west, south, then east.
Take the northeast path to the stairs.



Floor B2



From the stairs, head west and follow the path. Take the north path at the
intersection. When you come to two paths heading south, take the western path
south to some stairs.



Floor B3



Go northeast, ignore the first stairs, head west and go down the second stairs.



Floor B4



Now you are back on the floor where you saw the two flights of stairs, where the
ascending stairs lead to Erdrick's Sword and the descending stairs lead to an
endless loop. Ignore both stairs and head east, then north to more descending
stairs.



Floor B5



You can encounter the final two monsters (besides the Dragonlord himself) on
this floor as well as the two final floors just below. Knight Abhorrents can
cast Midheal and Sizzle. Red Dragons can cast Fizzle, so make sure you keep your
HP high. Follow the path to the end to go down another flight of stairs.



Floor B6



On this floor, simply walk straight east and down the stairs to the final floor.



Floor B7



Walk straight north and head to the treasure room. The chests contain WASTEBAND
(cursed), SEED OF MAGIC, MEDICINAL HERB, 424G, nothing, MAGIC KEY, nothing,
503G, and a CHIMAERA WING. If you want to keep your MP stat gain, Evac out and
Zoom to Tantegel Castle to rest and save. However, you will have to redo the
Dragonlord's Castle and get to the bottom floor again.

From the stairs on the final floor, take the leftmost path, turning east and
moving past the pillars. Continue east, then head south across two bridges. You
should be able to see the Dragonlord now. Heal up to full using any leftover
Herbs you may have left. Make a Quick Save.



<<----------------------------------DRAGONLORD-------------------------------->>



Talk to the Dragonlord. He will give you an opportunity to rule the world
alongside him. The catch is that he will get the Living half while you get the
Dead half. Clever Dragonlord. Anyway, if you accept his proposal twice, you will
be returned to the Inn at Rimuldar. So decline his offer twice and prepare for
the final battle!


 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
| DRAGONLORD - 225 HP - 40 MP - Can cast Snooze, Midheal and Sizzle            |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
| During this battle, be sure to keep your HP above 95 in case of Snooze. Keep |
| attacking him physically. Even though he has Midheal, he will eventually be  |
| taken down.                                                                  |
|                                                                              |
| Victory! Oh, wait a second...                                                |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/



Crap. True form! The real final battle begins!


 ______________________________________________________________________________
/                                                                              \
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
| DRAGONLORD (TRUE FORM) - 300 HP                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                              |
| This Boss is the real deal. He can spit out a fiery torrent of flames and    |
| breathe fire, both of which do minimal damage. His physical attacks do       |
| medium damage. Also, he can belch out blistering flames, doing a maximum     |
| damage of 50+, and that's with Erdrick's Armour equipped. Back to back       |
| belches could be really bad. If you are only at level 20, it may take several|
| tries until you get lucky enough to kill him. Use Midheal every time you dip |
| below 95 HP. He should go down after only a few tries.                       |
|                                                                              |
| Victory!                                                                     |
|                                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
\______________________________________________________________________________/




<<-----------------------------------ENDING----------------------------------->>



Zoom to Tantegel Castle to watch the ending. There are two possible endings.
Whichever one you get depends on if you saved Princess Gwaelin or not. The
credits start to roll.

Final victory at last!
