Unidentified distress signal....     /


You'll start out at a damaged Space Frigate, the place where the distress
signal came from. Samus will take a huge jump from her ship onto the frigate,
and you will control her once it gets in her visor view. To start off, you will
need to hit the four targets right in front of you to get rid of the force
field blocking your path. Use the L Button if you have trouble aiming. After
the force field is gone, proceed through to a pillar in the center of this
platform. Scan it, and 6 targets will appear. Hit them all to lower another
force field. Past that, jump up the stair, and head through the door after you
go through the path. Keep going until you head to the Air Lock. Scan the
machine beside the path to repressurize the room, so you can head into the
frigate itself. You will end up in the Emergency Evacuation Area.

If you look around, you'll see a few dead Space Pirates and what appears to be
a dead Parasite Queen. (You'll encounter a live one, later.) If you look
closely, you'll see some lizard-like Parasites eating away at the dead bodies.
Since they're enemies, scan one of them before they leave. This creature will
be added to your Log Book. Alright, head through this room to the other side.
You'll find a partially alive Space Pirate laying down on the ground. Put him
out of his misery....yes...shoot him. Anyway, after you kill him, head through
the next door to come to a blockage in the hallway, use the Charge Beam to blow
it away. (Hold A 'til fully charged, then release) Apparently, a Space Pirate
was here, and got his head cut off because he got caught in that
debris....ech.. Anyway, head into the next hallway to find a couple of
Parasites going through a ventilation duct, follow them using your Morph Ball,
(X) to find a Map Station! But, before you use it, scan it first, THEN you can
use it.

Oi, quite a big frigate, huh? Anyway, head back and head through the next door.
In this hallway, you'll see wreckage, but you can't get rid of it with your
Charge Beam. The solution? Morph Ball through the small passageway to get to
the other side. Oh, and watch out for the electricity blocking the opening.
Head through the door at the end to end up in the Biotech Research Area 1.
You'll see another Parasite Queen, but it's in stasis hibernation. Don't worry
about it, just walk around it. You'll see a Space Pirate walking around here
like a zombie, and one lying on the floor trying to get up, once again, put
them out of their misery. I know you would rather help them, but they are
ruthless, and will fire at you even if injured badly. That's why you need to
get rid of them. Anyway, go through the door across the room. Just around the
corner in this corridor, is an Auto-Defense Turret. Scan it first, then shoot a
Missile at it to destroy it. (Y) It should drop a Missile pick-up. (it glows
orange) Scan it then pick it up to get your Missile back.

You'll end up in Biohazard Containment, where you'll see another Parasite
Queen. It's stored in a stasis pod, but appears to be dead, so ignore it. The
computer in front of you should contain a Pirate Data Log, so scan it. If you
look around the stasis chamber, you'll see another turret, so shoot another
Missile at it. To pick up the ammo now, you have to charge your Charge Beam,
the ammo will come right to you like a tractor beam, so the Charge Beam is
useful for this, too. On your right once past the stasis chamber, is a
scannable computer thing, scan it to activate the elevator to the second floor.
Take it, and you'll find a Space Pirate on the floor, kill it, and it should
drop a purple sphere. It's a health pickup, which restores 10 health units.
Scan it first before you pick it up. Head around here to find a couple more
Space Pirates, a little stronger than you've encountered so far. Kill them both
and collect their pickups, then head into the door at the end of the path,
after you kill the Space Pirate lying next to it.

Go through the hallway to arrive at the Cargo Freight Lift to Deck Gamma. There
will be another Defense Turret to your right, take care of it with another
Missile, then pick up the refill. There's a computer conduit right next to the
freight lift, scan it to open the lift. Head inside and touch the hologram to
get it moving. When you arrive at the bottom, a non-injured Space Pirate will
fall down and surprise attack, he's a lot tougher than the hindered ones you
came across, so heavy firepower is recommended.

Once he's dead, scan the computer next to the door to open a hologram. “Please
insert metallic sphere to open door.” Well, if that isn't obvious enough, roll
into the hologram with your Morph Ball. This will open the door up. Go through,
annihilate the turrets in that room, collect their pickups, then go to the left
door for a Save Station. Scan this, too, either after you're done with it or
before. Head back, and scan the next computer conduit to activate another Morph
Ball hologram. You know what to do. After you open the door and head through, a
cutscene will show a Parasite Queen crawling down to where you're at, thus
starting a boss battle.

---------------------
BOSS: Parasite Queen

This boss isn't particularly hard, unless you absolutely suck at dodging, then
you'll have a problem. First of all, scan this creature. Not only will it add
it to the Creatures log, but it will reveal it's weak point! When its mouth is
open, shoot at it to cause more damage than just shooting it's body. Its only
attack is a weapon-grade toxic blast, which can easily be jumped/dodged. The
only way to do this battle correctly is to lock on. This boss, like the other
FAQs say, just gets you familiar with the strafing and lock-on techniques. So,
basically, shoot at it's mouth when it's open until it's dead. Seems simple,
right? Not very. A force field will surround it, with only two openings to
shoot through. You'll have to do this, otherwise you're shots will repel. Once
it's dead, a timer will start....
---------------------

You have 6 minutes to escape! You will be pointed in the right direction, so
head through the door, posthaste! Proceed through the hallways and the elevator
until you get back to the Biotech Research Area 1, except in the bottom floor.
You'll see a couple of Space Pirates shooting at the Parasite Queen that
escaped from stasis, and an explosion will blow away the Space Pirates (killing
them), and kill the Parasite Queen. That explosion caused the pathway above to
break, so climb up the debris to get back to the second floor. You'll see a few
Space Pirates hindering your progress out of here, so kill them and you'll see
a ventilation duct blow its cap off, so head through, because all doors here
are locked. You'll head through a series of ventilation ducts, with swarms of
Parasites coming out of openings. Just avoid them, if you spend your sweet time
getting rid of them, you won't have enough time to escape. Shoot at ventilation
doors to open them.

You'll eventually come to a room with two turrets: destroy them both, then you
can use the next door. Just keep going until you get to a shaft with a pusher.
It's hard to explain, but the shaft it's in seems red hot. Luckily, your Varia
Suit will protect you from heat. What you have to do here, is when the pusher
is revealing the exit out of this shaft, take it quickly, otherwise, it'll
block it up again. After you're past that, you'll head into the Biotech
Research Area 2, where you'll find Meta Ridley, and he'll escape. Now, in order
to get across here, you'll have to use your Grapple Beam to swing across the
Grapple points to the other side. (Press and hold L once near a Grapple point.)
Once here in this hallway, scan the computer conduit to deactivate the turrets
here, (neat, huh?) and scan the next one to activate the elevator, but as soon
as you do, an explosion will knock Samus into the wall so hard, that her Varia
Suit, Morph Ball, Charge Beam, Grapple Beam, and Missile Launcher will all
malfunction.....Not good.

Anyway, since it knocked you into the elevator, step into the hologram to head
up. Once it's at the top, head through the twists and corners in the hallway
until you reach the Air Lock, and head left. The right is blocked by fire,
besides, it leads back inside the frigate, so yeah... Head towards the door and
the room will depressurize, wasting a few seconds. After it's done, you can
open the door, and escape just in time. The whole place will start exploding,
and Meta Ridley will come flying towards Tallon IV, and Samus will head into
her ship and chase him, but she loses the tracking on him, thus ground-based
recon is required. You'll proceed to land in the Tallon Overworld, Samus
checking out the place, then you'll be prompted to save, so save.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 8

Creatures: 3
Parasite
Auto-Defense Turret
Parasite Queen

Pirate Logs: 1
Fall of Zebes

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 4
Map Station
Missile Ammo
Small Energy
Save Station

Total scans obtained: 8


Speedy Recovery                      /


Yes, as if you blatantly didn't notice, this section will help you recover
everything you lost, except for the Grapple Beam, which will be gotten later in
another section. Each subsection will tell you exactly what we'll get next, and
after every subsection, will be that “scans obtained” list, alrighty? Also,
from now on, I'll show how many items you've gotten, plus show your item
percentage after each subsection. I'm still not quite sure how you can see your
scan percentage, though.... Continue reading...

NEW INFO*
I've figured out that you can only see your scan percentage and item percentage
in-game in the European (PAL) version. In case you do have the PAL version, it
should be listed in the Log Book section of the Start Menu.

NOTE*
I will not be listing the Missile Launcher as a Missile Expansion in the item
list, instead, it'll be in the “Suit upgrades obtained” list. I wanted to write
this down so I wouldn't have a bunch of people telling me that I missed a
Missile Expansion in the item list.


Getting the Missile Launcher         /


Yes, the first thing you obtain is the Missile Launcher. First, jump off then
scan your ship, then head to the door to the ship's right. You'll come to a
small sandy room, and two Beetles will pop out. Scan one, then destroy them.
(What? Your only weapon right now is the Power Beam..) Head left once you
defeat them to head into the exotic Tallon Canyon. To your left is a Sap Sac,
scan it to add it to your Creatures list. In front of you is a bunch of
platforms surrounding a pool of water, including a waterfall. Don't go up the
platforms yet because they lead to a door that you can't open yet. Instead,
head to the right of the platforms to get through a door, passing a half-pipe.
You'll also encounter a few Beetles, so kill them. In the next hallway, scan
one of the Zoomers crawling up and down the walls, then kill both of them.
Ignore the Sap Sacs, as they blow up of you touch them/shoot them. Past the
next door is an elevator to the Chozo Ruins. Scan the conduit next to it to
activate the elevator......use it!

Now, once you're in Chozo Ruins, head forward, through the hallway, into a
room, with two Beetles popping out of the ground. As you kill them, your
auto-tracking device will activate, telling you that there's some seismic
activity occuring in the Hive Totem, which is where you'll get the Missile
Launcher. Before you enter the next door, scan the Chozo Lore above it. (Chozo
Lore looks like a puddle of wavy water on the walls.) Now, enter the door to
enter the Main Plaza, and a cutscene will show up, showing you everything in
the Main Plaza....eerie music, huh? Anyway, once the cutscene is over, head
straight forward to come a large group of Beetles. Dispose of them, then past
the half-pipe, up the stairs, and head left to a door. Head through it to come
to a winding tunnel. Careful here, because a swarm of Scarabs will come
crawling through the walls, and will explode if you get too close to them.
First before you get the swarm, scan a Scarab, then proceed to clean them out
like an exterminator. Head through the hallway to come to the Eyon Tunnel. As
you can guess, it's filled with Eyons, which are eye-like creatures attached
to the walls. They shoot a laser from their pupils, so they're enemies. Scan
one, then head through the hallway, shooting the Eyeons to stun them. No, you
can't kill them until you get the Charge Beam.

Past the Eyeon Tunnel is the Ruined Nursery. In front and to the right of the
tree here is a Chozo Lore, scan it. Your auto-tracking device will also detect
a save point nearby, which is right next to the Ruined Nursery, but not on the
main path. Head forward through the room after you scanned the Chozo Lore, and
two Beetles will pop out. You know what to do. After that, climb the stairs to
your right to get to the second and top floor of this room. Some War Wasps will
come out of their nests on the other side of the room, scan one, and scan their
hive, then proceed to kill them. Now, overlooking the bottom floor, there is a
platform to your right, and a Morph Ball maze to your left. Ignore the Morph
Ball maze for now, and get on the platform to your right. You'll come to a door
around the bend, and you'll see the Save Point you were directed to. Save.

Alright. Now, head back into the Ruined Nursery and go through the door on the
top floor. Head through the hallway, past the open room, killing the swarm of
Scarabs, and you'll arrive at the Ruined Gallery. Some War Wasps will come out
of their hive, so kill them. Well, there's really not much to do here, now, so
jump across the platforms on your right and head through the door on the other
side. In the Totem Access, you'll see some Plazmites, which are similar to
fireflies. Scan one, then destroy 'em. Although they really aren't harmful,
they block the path here, and will cause slight damage to you if you touch
them. Anyway, in the same Access, you'll come to a small room with a platform
in the middle, and it contains a few boxes, and Tangle Weeds. Scan the Tangle
Weeds, then destroy the boxes for some Missile or Energy pick-ups. (If you need
them, that is.) Head throuh the rest of the Access to head toward the Hive
totem itself. This room is fairly large, has a big platform in the middle, and
a puddle of water full of toxins at your left side. (This room is tilted,
so...) Anyway, get on the platform, then proceed to cross the bridge to the
Missile Launcher.....wait...that's too easy....

A cutscene will occur, showing the room getting filled up with that poisonous
water, and a machine below the Missile Launcher will rise up, and connect with
the top one to create the Hive Totem. It will proceed to open, and will release
a swarm of War Wasps. You might notice these are different, so when you get the
chance, scan one. After you scan them, scan the machine. If you don't know
where to scan, try looking under the water towards the machine. After the
scanning is done, proceed to kill the Ram War Wasps. Once they're dead, the
machine will open up, shoot at it until it gets to “round 2.” Even more Ram War
Wasps will appear, kill them, and the machine will open up, shoot it to get to
round 3. Do the same thing as last time, and the machine will be beaten, and
will allow you access to the MISSILE LAUNCHER.

Now that you have the Missile Launcher, go ahead and scan the door, then blast
it with a Missile. Open the door with your Beam, and collect the ENERGY TANK.
inside. Proceed out of the Hive Totem and head to the Ruined Gallery. Now that
you have the Missile Launcher, we can do a couple of things here! First, head
to the bottom floor, and turn around to see some Blast Caps on a platform in
the middle of the poisonous water. Scan one, then blast those Blast Caps, then
get on the platform that they were on. In front of you is a cracked wall. Blast
it with a Missile to uncover a MISSILE EXPANSION! Now that you've got that,
head to the door with the Blast Shield on it, and blast it open with a Missile.
Proceed inside to a....Map room! No need to scan this, because you already did
it on the Space Frigate, remember? Of course, this place is really huge... @_@.
I think that's about it, so head to the Ruined Nursery, and save at the Save
Room. I'll end this subsection here. Let's look at what we've obtained in this
subsection.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 16

Creatures: 12
Beetle
Sap Sac
Zoomer
Scarab
Eyon
War Wasp
War Wasp Hive
Plazmite
Tangle Weeds
Ram War Wasps
Hive Mecha
Blastcap

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 2
Fountain
Exodus

Research: 2
Samus's Ship
Blast Shield

Total scans obtained: 24
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 1
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 1
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 1
Total percentage: 3%


Grabbing the Morph Ball              /


Yes, we're going to get the Morph Ball. So, let's head back to the Main Plaza.
Head back right, destroying the Beetles in your way, heading towards the door
that you first entered the Main Plaza. To your right, once you are facing it,
just past the half-pipe, is a door with a Blast Shield on it. Proceed to open
it, and head through a twisting hallway with a couple swarms of Scarabs. Past
this hallway is the Ruined Shrine. Climb up the stairs then drop to the center
to cause a massive swarm of Beetles to appear....

Destroy them all, and a bigger Beetle will come out. This is a Plated Beetle.
Scan it first. Now, in order to kill this thing, you have to shoot at its red
tail. But you can't get to it because the Beetle knows it's weakness, so it
hides it from you. The thing you have to do is wait for it to charge at you,
then quickly dash to the side. (Yes, you're doing Lock-on.) It's tail will be
exposed, so shoot a Missile (or two if you have the time) at it. Two Missiles
ought to get rid of it. That was a fairly easy fight, huh? Anyway, the path to
the Morph Ball will now appear. Grab the Morph Ball. Man, this was a small
subsection, huh? Anyway, now that you've got this move, you can exit this room.
If you want, go ahead and save at the Ruined Nursery, although you will have to
backtrack all the way to the Main Plaza. But hey, if you're enjoying this game,
you might as well save!

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 1

Creatures: 1
Plated Beetle

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 0

Total scans obtained: 25
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 1
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 1
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 2
Total percentage: 4%


Acquiring the Charge Beam            /


Alright! We're gonna get the Charge Beam! Head to the far end of the Main
Plaza, and you'll find that you can climb up. Do that, and proceed to walk over
the half-pipe using a bridge made of vines and stones. (neat.) Some War Wasps
are up here, and will assault you, so take them out. In case you didn't know, a
Missile blast will get rid of a Hive, that way they won't come out again. I'd
advise you save your Missiles though, especially if you try Hard Mode. (Hard
mode will be unlocked after you beat the game.) There should be a door here, so
enter it. You'll come across another twisting tunnel, with two more swarms of
Scarabs. Get the first swarm, then use the Morph Ball to squeeze through the
vines. Just stay in Morph Ball mode and avoid the second swarm, because there
are some more vines you have to squeeze through. Proceed through the door into
the Ruined Fountain. Above the fountain is a Chozo Lore. Scan it, of course.
There are some more Plazmites here, but they provide light in this room, so
don't kill them. (Super Metroid, anyone?)

There are two other doors here. One on the other side of this room, and one on
your left. Let's take the one on the left. It's not very simple, though. The
platform to the door is too far for you to jump, and there is poisonous water
down below. What to do? The solution is, jumping across platforms working your
way around the room, to the door.  In the Arboretum Access, you'll see some
Shriek Bats. Scan one before they make a suicidal dive towards you. Don't worry
if you didn't scan them in time, though, you'll encounter more. Enter the door
at the end of the Access and you will come to the Arboretum. The Arboretum is a
tall room, with toxic water surrounding a growing tree. You'll have to get
through the door behind the tree.

To your left are platforms which will get you there. There's also a Reaper Vine
guarding each platform that's against a wall. Scan one, then shoot its eye to
make it retract. Climb across the platforms and the bridge to get to the other
side, and head through the door. Your auto-tracking device will also detect a
Save Station, which is beside the next room, the Gathering Hall. Head to the
Save Station to save. When you exit, you'll be attacked by Shriekbats, scan
them if you didn't get the chance, but if you've already scanned them, then
pummel 'em with your Beam. The door right in front of you is blocked by Blast
Caps, and we need to go through that door! Get rid of those unsightly
mushrooms, then head through the door to come to the Watery Hall Access, where
some Shriekbats will greet you.

After you dispose of them, shoot a Missile at the cracked wall to your left at
the bottom of the room to uncover a MISSILE EXPANSION. Proceed through the
Access to the Watery Hall. You'll see some platforms leading up, but ignore
them. Instead, hop on the island to your left, after you get rid of the Blast
Caps, of course. Once on the island, turn around and scan a runic symbol around
there. This is one of four. You have to scan all four runic symbols in this
hall to get access to the Charge Beam. After you scan it, jump across the
islands until you get to another Blast Cap growing area. Get rid of them all,
then scan the runic symbol that they were hiding. Keep going, and you'll see
another runic symbol at a dead end. Now, we need one more.

So, let's go back to those platforms and climb up them. At the end of the high
pathway, you'll come to the door that needs unlocking. The last runic symbol is
beside it. After you scan the last one, scan the door and it will open. Scan
the Chozo Lore, then grab the CHARGE BEAM. (Whew! That's a lot of scanning!)
After you grab the Charge Beam, the walls will come alive with Eyons! Now that
you have the Charge Beam, you can destroy them. (Yay) After you destroy them
all, return to the Gathering Hall and save at the Save Station.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 4

Creatures: 2
Shriekbat
Reaper Vine

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 2
Hatchling
Meteor Strike

Research: 0

Total scans obtained: 29
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 2
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 1
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 3
Total percentage: 6%


Getting the Morph Ball Bomb          /


OK, we're gonna get the Morph Ball Bomb next. I will continue this section
until we get every Missile and/or Energy Tank that we can get, even after we
get the main item in this subsection. Alright, we're gonna have to do some
climbing in the Gathering Hall. From the Save Room door, there will be a
section of raised ground beside the Arboretum door. Use that to start climbing.
Get to the top, jumping platforms and blasting Blast Caps and Shriekbats, and
head through the door. After a hallway, you should come to the Energy Core.
Let's observe what's here, shall we? First, there's a big pool of poisonous
water in front of you, and a locked door on the other side. Scan the locked
door to add it to your Research Log Book. There's a hallway on either side of
you; the one on the right leads downward to a pool of poisonous water, and the
other leads to a Morph Ball hole. Observe the facts.

If you answered correctly, then the only way to go is to the hallway on your
left. About now, you should come to some red spheres which look like those
purple Energy pick-ups. These restore 20 units of Energy. Whenever you come
across one, scan it. Anyway, past the Morph Ball hole, will be another hole,
and past that is a door, which will lead you to the Burn Dome. A cutscene will
appear, showing an indestructible War Wasp Hive, and a machine will pop out.
Scan the machine. Basically, this Mechanoid Incinerator Drone shoots out two
jets of fire. After a short while, it will expose its weak-point: shoot at it
with your Beam and it will shoot a jet of fire at the Hive, awakening the most
powerful of all War Wasps, the Barbed War Wasps. Scan one. Now this is where
things get a little tougher. While focusing on the Drone, you have to keep an
eye out for the War Wasps. Whenever one comes out, you have to get it while
avoiding the Drone's flames. This can be very difficult, even I can't go
through it without taking quite a few hits. Basically, just kill the War Wasps
when you get the chance, and shoot at the weak spot once it shows itself until
the Hive gets destroyed by the flames, and when the machine explodes because it
overloads. Now, you have the MORPH BALL BOMB!

If you look closely, you'll see a blocked Morph Ball hole. Use a Bomb to break
through and to get a MISSILE EXPANSION at the end. Now, let's head back to the
Energy Core. Once you exit the Morph Ball hole in the Core, you'll notice a
Stone Toad to your left. Scan it, then get in Morph Ball mode and approach it.
It should suck you in. Before it spits you out, plant a Bomb inside of it to
blow it away, everything splattering everywhere....nah, it's not that graphic.
Anyway, behind it hides a generator with a Morph Ball Slot. Scan the Slot
first, then use a Bomb to pop yourself up to it. Use another Bomb to activate
the Generator, which will lower the water in the main room. Another Generator
and Morph Ball Slot will be uncovered. Also a timer will start. Use the itty
bitty tunnel here to get to the main room quickly. Head to that next Morph Ball
Slot to activate another Generator. This one will raise some platforms. Quickly
take them and go through the small tunnel to get to another Slot and generator.
Use the Slot, and the generator will raise another set of platforms, and will
unlock the door that I showed you when we first entered this room.

Head through the next tunnel to get to a Spider Ball track and a Morph Ball
hole. Head through the hole to get an ENERGY TANK. Head back to the Gathering
Hall Save Station to save. Now, head all the way back to the Ruined Nursery.
Remember the Morph Ball maze here? Well.... At the bottom floor of this room,
there's a low entry to the maze. Use a Bomb to pop yourself in there. Go
through it, and get rid of the block there to clear the path. Now, head out,
and enter the maze from the top floor of the room. Go through the maze, bombing
blocks, until you get to another MISSILE EXPANSION. Now head into the Ruined
Gallery. There's two holes near some Tangle Weeds on the bottom floor. Enter
either, and you'll get another MISSILE EXPANSION. Now, head into the room that
contained your first Energy Tank. (Past the Hive Totem.) There's a hole here.
Use the Morph Ball to get through. Head through the little maze with the
pistons to head into a Magmoor Caverns transport.

Don't take it yet. Instead, take the door on the right, towards the Vault. Once
you get to the Vault, find the Chozo Lore here and scan it, then look for three
Morph Ball Slots. The first two have weak locks on them. Blow them open and use
the Slots. The last one is a little high. You need to Double Bomb Jump to reach
it. Here's how: Plant a Bomb, and just before it explodes, plant another one.
When you pop up into the air, immediately set another Bomb. If successful, you
should pop up with the second one, and the third one in the air should pop you
up once more. This will allow you to reach the last Slot. Once you've activated
all the Slots, the vault will open, exposing a MISSILE EXPANSION. Continue
through, until you get to an ENERGY TANK, overlooking the far end of the Main
Plaza. Alright. That should be it. Let's end this subsection.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 7

Creatures: 3
Incinerator Drone
Barbed War Wasps
Stone Toad

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 1
Beginnings

Research: 3
Large Energy
Door Lock
Morph Ball Slot

Total scans obtained: 36
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 6
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 3
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 4
Total percentage: 13%


Catching the Varia Suit              /


Alright. This is probably going to be a short subsection...but anyway.. Head
into the Arboretum. Now, we have to do the same task that we did in the Watery
Hall: find and scan all four runic symbols. First, get to that bridge that lead
to the door that lead to the Gathering Hall. (whew) While on the bridge, face
the tree, and turn on your Scan Visor. You should see the first runic symbol.
After you scan that, drop down to the platform on your right, turn around
facing the bridge, and look down. You should see red Tangle Weeds. Shoot at
them to uncover another runic symbol.

Now it's time to climb up. Just climb up the side of the room from the bridge,
getting to a Morph Ball tunnel and some War Wasps from the tree. Go through
this tunnel, without falling, and bombing the blocks, to get to another runic
symbol. The last one is at the top. Continuing upwards, you'll find some more
red Tangle Weeds. (They're real name is Venom Weeds.) Scan them, then shoot at
them so as to Morph Ball through the tunnel without getting damaged.

You couldn't scan the first batch of Venom Weeds because all it says is that
they are hiding something. Alright, keep climbing and you should arrive at the
door that you need to unlock. Right behind you once you face the door is the
last runic symbol. This one should open the door, revealing a blocked Morph
Ball hole. Bomb it, then continue through the hallways filled with Venom Weeds
and Reaper Vines to come to the Sunchamber. A cutscene will come up, showing a
mutated plant called Flaaghra.

---------------------
BOSS: Flaaghra

This is the main boss of the Chozo Ruins. Scan it first. You can also scan one
of Flaaghra's roots. Look around for it in Scan Visor if you don't know what to
look for. (Hint: It's blocking a tunnel at ground level.) Its attacks are
claw-swiping, toxic energy balls, and creating a small toxic garden, which
you'll have to stay away from, until the garden disappears. Now, for the
strategy. You can't beat him with your Beam or Missiles. Well, how to defeat
him, you say? Look around, and you should see a sunlight contraption. Behind
each has a red target. Shoot the red target multiple times to disable it.
(Lock-on helps really well.)

Once you disable it, Flaaghra will collapse and its roots will retract. Here's
where you damage this boss. Morph Ball through the opening that the roots were
in, and place a Bomb at the Slot in the end. You'll seem to have defeated him,
but two sunlights will activate, reviving Flaaghra. Try the same proccess, but
you'll notice that as soon as you deactivate a sunlight, Flaaghra will activate
it again. What to do, now? Well, if you notice, when you shoot Flaaghra, he'll
flash yellow. Keep doing this, and you'll stun him. Use this opportunity to
deactivate the sunlights. Proceed through this process, stunning him and
deactivating sunlights, until he's finally dead.
---------------------

You'll be pointed to a coin with an S on it. Collect it to gain the VARIA SUIT!
Now that you have the Varia Suit, we can explore Magmoor Caverns, so let's do
that. First, go through the door here. The one you originally entered is filled
with vines, meaning you can't enter. Go through the tunnel here until you come
to a blockage made of blocks. Break them, and you'll encounter a yellow Energy
pick-up. It's an Ultra Energy and it restores a full tank of Energy. (100
units) Very useful. Scan it before you collect it. Keep going and you'll
encounter a familiar enemy, called a Pulse Bombu. Scan it. Now, since you don't
have the appropriate weapon to kill this thing, just move on. You'll encounter
a Spider Ball Track on the ground, leading downward. Since you don't have it
yet, just fall. For some reason, you don't take damage for falling from high
distances. The next room is that same Magmoor transport you encountered. Scan
the conduit next to it to activate it, then use the elevator to descend into
the molten depths of the planet.....

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 5

Creatures: 4
Venom Weed
Flaaghra
Tentacle
Pulse Bombu

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 1
Ultra Energy

Total scans obtained: 41
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 6
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 3
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 5
Total percentage: 14%


Exploring Extreme Temperatures       /


In this section, you'll be exploring hot and cold, acquiring new abilities as
well. You will never be able to make it through Magmoor Caverns without the
Varia Suit, so that's why they directed you to this transport. Alright, let's
get started.

NOTE FOR SPEED RUNNERS AND LOW %AGE RUNNERS:
Done correctly, you CAN get through this section of Magmoor without the Varia
Suit. This FAQ is not for speed runs or low %age runs, so look for another FAQ
that covers that.


Boost Ball acquired                  /


First, after the elevator, fall down the next room, then continue through the
hallways, busting those Shriekbats, until you reach a Save Room. (Behind a door
with a Blast Shield.) In the room ahead, you'll see your first pool of lava. A
platform is in the middle, and a Grizby scuttling around. Scan it first, then
hit it with a Missile. The reason to use a Missile, is because their shells are
too hard, so they can't be hurt with any kind of Beam. Anyway, continue beating
up the Grizbys and jumping across platforms, avoiding jets of flame, until you
reach a tunnel. There's a burrowing uh...Burrower here. Scan it. When it pops
out of the ground, hit it a few times with your beam to destroy it.  Keep going
until you reach Lava Lake, which a cutscene will show the whole room, including
some new enemies. After the scene is over, a Magmoor should pop out of the lava
in front of you. Scan it, then proceed to literally blow it's head off. There
are also some Puffers here. Scan one. These things can be blown up with one
shot, but they leave a puff of poisonous air. Wait for the puff to disappear
before you move on. Just continue through this part of the Lake, popping
Puffers and blowing the other Magmoor's head off, 'til you get to the other
side, which seems like a dead-end. Not to worry. You see the boxes here?
Destroy them to reveal a Sandstone wall. Do you remember that Sandstone walls
can be broken with Bombs? *hint hint*

Just bomb your way through the tunnel until you get to the other part of the
Lake, which you basically do the same thing. Pop the Puffers, and jump across
platforms to the other side. Oh, I almost forgot to tell you. If you're in
close range of a Puffer when it pops, you'll take damage, and the force of the
blast could knock you off a platform and into some lava. Double damage. Anyway,
you should eventually come to the Pit Tunnel. The room basically has a lava
cylinder in the middle, and an opening at the bottom of the room, filled with
Triclops. Scan a Triclops before you head into the Morph Ball opening.
According to the scan, their only weak spot is the mouth....you know what that
means? Place a Bomb near one of them, and it'll suck it up, thinking it's food,
and it'll blow up, right in its mouth. Also, if you are caught by one of the
Triclops, they will literally show you the exit, which is where you entered
this small opening. Just get to the other side of this room, blowing up those
Triclops' mouths. You should end up in the Triclops Pit, a similar room in that
it has a “lower floor”, but it's MUCH bigger.

There are platforms leading up to the top, but here, we need to get a Missile
Expansion. First, get to the opening of the lower floor. There should be a
tunnel in some rock that contains that. By the way, the tunnel has jets of hot
air shooting out of some holes, making it a little hard to see. Anyway, once
you get to the “lower floor”, look for a hole around here while
avoiding/destroying the Triclops. Once you do find the hole, go through it to
come to a room with a door. Climb up to it and open it. Walk through the small
tunnel to get to a lava pit with some grating acting as a passageway. Walk
through the “passageway” to get to that MISSILE EXPANSION. Now, head all the
way back to the Triclops Pit room and start climbing the platforms, being aware
of the Puffers up there. In case you're having trouble finding a way to the
platforms, try climbing up the rocks on the edge of the room. Once you do get
to the top, go through the door up there.

DISCOVERY*
I just found this out. If you get caught by one of those Triclops, rotate the
Control Stick as much as you can. If successful, you should break free from the
Triclops' mandibles.

Go through the Monitor Tunnel to the huge Monitor Station. The tower in the
center is one of the Space Pirates'..um...bases. Once you enter, around three
or four Auto-Defense Turrets should activate. Uh-oh, better get rid of them!
They're the same as the ones on that Frigate, but are more powerful. Two
Missiles (instead of one) should get rid of each. Once they're gone, start
climbing around the exterior of the cavern. There should be another door to
your left, but we'll ignore it for now. Just focus on climbing up the rocks. At
the middle, you should encounter another Turret.  Take it out, then jump to the
extended catwalk to get to a lab-like room in the tower. You can scan the
computers here to see what the Space Pirates are up to in the Magmoor Caverns,
but you won't get anything added to your Log Book.

Anyway, once you enter that little room, there should be another catwalk
leading to a door. Go through the door to get to a hole, which will lead to a
Morph Ball Maze. Now, before we go through the bottom of this maze to the other
side, let's get the Energy Tank hidden here. As soon as you enter the maze, you
should be right on a block made of Sandstone. This Sandstone will be able to
withstand two blasts of Bombs. Standing on this block, do that Double Bomb Jump
technique. (If you don't remember how, go back to where we were at the Vault in
the walkthrough.) Once done correctly, you should be able to reach a higher
ledge. Get on that to get to a dead-end with another rock. Double Bomb Jump up
to another ledge, and at the end of that ledge should be a dead-end with
another block. Double Bomb Jump one last time to grab the ENERGY TANK and fall
straight to the bottom floor. Take the exit to the next room, and you should
reach an elevator to Phendrana Drifts. Activate the conduit and use the
elevator.

You should now be at Phendrana Drifts. The hallway ahead should be blocked with
ice. You can break it with a Missile, but if you want to conserve Missiles,
(which would be pointless, considering you'll just gain the Missile back by
beating an enemy) use a charged shot. Keep destroying the ice in your path
until you get to Phendrana Shores. In front of you should be a Save Station,
and you might need it, depending on how tough you think you are. After saving,
we've got a couple of scans to accumulate. First, is the Crystallite. These are
those scuttling bugs similar to the Grizby, except the shell is made of ice.
Like the Grizby, it is vulnerable to concussion blasts. (Missiles) However,
once you acquire the Plasma Beam, they will be destroyed in one hit. The next
scan is the Flickerbat. Those are those bird-like creatures you see flying
above you. They aren't really harmful in the Shores, because they are too high.
Remember, I'm listing scans you have to get, so scan those two creatures.
There's an obstacle at the end of some river that can be destroyed with a
Missile. Behind it is something to scan, which actually unlocks the door above.

Now, remember the entryway to the Save Station? Facing the shores while in that
entry, there will be a bunch of ledges which create a stair-like obstacle.
Climb up them, destroying the Crystallites on the way up, and head into the
door at the top you just unlocked. In this tunnel, shoot the ice with a charged
shot/Missile. There should be some Scatter Bombus here. Scan one. Like the
Pulse Bombus, these electricity-emitting cousins cannot be destroyed with your
current weapon. To pass through their energy waves, just Morph through an open
spot. Through this tunnel should be the Ice Ruins East. As you move on, you'll
notice blue creatures will pop out of the ground. These are Baby Sheegoths.
Scan one. Their only weak spot is their back, so keep dashing side to side
while locked onto 'em to shoot their backs. Their only attacks are: ice breath,
ice projectile, and ram. You'll have to be careful with their ice breath
manuever, as it'll freeze you if you're fully caught in it. It's only a
short-range attack, though, so stray away from them. They'll use their ram move
when you're too far. Just do a quick dash to avoid damage. After their shells
are destroyed, a few more shots to their back will do them in. If you notice,
it looks like the holes in their skin are filled with a blue-ish substance.
Trust me, you'll be seeing a lot more of that stuff, only this time, it's not
in those creatures.

Anyway, you see the ruins? Climb up them, and basically go roof-hopping to the
door at the end. In this tunnel are some Ice Burrowers. They're basically the
same as the Burrowers, but instead they live in a cold (read: very cold)
environment. Scan one, then shoot them when they pop out. As you progress
through the tunnel, getting rid of those Ice Burrowers, you'll see small traces
of that blue-ish substance. This stuff won't harm you now, since they're in
very small traces. The door at the end will lead you into a high alcove in the
Shores. There's another door to your left. Take it, and through the small open
area filled with Pulse Bombus, and you'll reach Ice Ruins West. There are a
couple more Baby Sheegoths here, but before you deal with them, enter the small
ruins to your right. Past a Crystallite, is a Chozo Lore, which is probably the
only Chozo Lore you'll find in this region. Anyway, scan it, then proceed back
to where the Baby Sheegoths are, and destroy them. Around the ruins here,
you'll find a door with a Blast Shield hidden in a little corridor.

Head through the door to come to a tunnel full of Scatter Bombus, that leads to
a LONG open area. There's a bridge below, drop down to it, then turn around.
You should see a Chozo Lore. Scan it, then drop down to the floor at the end of
the bridge. Fight the Baby Sheegoth with the small space you have, and once
it's gone, find a snowy incline and climb up it. There should be a conduit.
Scan it, and the platforms will line up. Proceed across them with out stopping,
(otherwise you'll fall with the platform) and grab the item at the end. BOOST
BALL!! After you collect it, a cutscene should show a lake which has been
frozen into a half-pipe figure. Use the Speed Ball to get to the ledge above,
and proceed out of here. As you exit, your auto-tracking device will search for
more “half-pipe” configurations. It turns out, that there's one in particular,
in the Tallon Overworld, in the room, “Tallon Canyon.” Yes, that means we'll
have to go all the way back to where we first started this item hunt, in the
Overworld.

Just head out of the Ice Ruins West and back to the ledge overlooking the
Shores. Walk towards the edge, and a cutscene will show Meta-Ridley flying
right above Samus, heading towards the land above Magmoor Caverns, and
disappearing in the horizon. Then the cutscene will end........well, at least
we know he/it's on this planet, eh? Anyway, use the elevator to head back into
the Magmoor Caverns, and retrace your path, backtracking all the way to the
elevator to the Chozo Ruins, as we've got a few Missile Expansions to get there
since we got the Boost Ball. You can save near the elevator if you want. (It's
recommended that you do, though. I mean, we did a lot since the last time we
saved.) Just head to the Chozo Ruins. Once you're there, read the next
subsection. This one is done.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 11

Creatures: 10
Grizby
Burrower
Magmoor
Puffer
Triclops
Crystallite
Flickerbat
Scatter Bombu
Baby Sheegoth
Ice Burrower

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 1
Cipher
The Turned

Research: 0

Total scans obtained: 52
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 7
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 4
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 6
Total percentage: 17%


Space Jump Boots!                    /


Alright. Now, just take any route you wish, but you need to get back to the
Main Plaza. (All paths will lead you there, except one which has a Spider Ball
track.) Once you're there, use the half-pipe in the middle. Be sure to be on
the center. You should be able to get on an alcove just below the bridge. The
alcove will have a MISSILE EXPANSION. Now head to the Ruined Shrine. There are
two (!) Missile Expansions to get in this room. First, use the half-pipe to get
to a tunnel that contains a MISSILE EXPANSION. (If you encounter a Spider Ball
track at the end of the tunnel, then you're on the wrong side.) There's also a
Sandstone blockage to a Morph Ball hole here. Blow it open (it's obvious to
see) and collect the MISSILE EXPANSION inside. Alright, we should be done
collecting things here for now, so head to the elevator to the Tallon
Overworld. Once there, make your way to Tallon Canyon. Use the half-pipe here
to reach a high ledge. Past a bridge up here is a Sandstone blockage. Bomb your
way through here until you reach a door that leads to a lush Gully. Even though
this particular room is beautiful, I hate walking through it. It's because of
the lush plant growth that I can't see those darn Zoomers.

Anyway, through this short/lush passage, you will reach a ledge overloooking
the Landing Site. (Notice the blue-ish substance on the wall of the Gully?)
Don't drop down yet. There's a door further left. Just jump across small gaps
when you come across them, and head to the door, which a large room contains
the Space Jump Boots. (Why not call them High Jump Boots? They could've done it
with the same height, except without the double jump. Well, the double jump is
actually useful in crossing large gaps....oh well, maybe that is a reason they
call them Space Jump Boots.)  (Weird, there's even more of that blue-ish
substance here, too...) Head back to your ship in the Landing Site and Save and
restore everything in your stock. Now, before we leave to head BACK TO
PHENDRANA DRIFTS, let's look around for a small Morph Ball tunnel that has a
bunch of Tangle Weeds in it. There should be another MISSILE EXPANSION inside.
Now, save if you want, and head back to Tallon Canyon. Now, before we go any
further, notice the ledges surrounding the waterfall here? Climb up them, and
you'll encounter a red Zoomer, called a Geemer.

NOTE: You can acquire the Space Jump Boots as the first item you get through
means of a glitch. However, I will not tell you how. Look in MonsterERB's topic
in the Metroid Prime board with a title similar to “Space Jump Boots first: How
to get them.” (If it's still there....)

Scan it. The only way to destroy a Geemer is to shoot a Missile. Its carapace
has grown really hard to prevent damage from Beam weapons. Follow the rest of
the path to come to a door. There will be a large plant that is called a
Bloodflower that emits poisonous gas. Scan it, then proceed to shoot at one of
the Sap Sacs above the plant. The Sap Sacs should explode, thus killing that
plant.

The door up ahead, past a pool of water, has a Blast Shield on it. Just do what
you need to do to open it. Ah, the Root Cave. A tall, tower-like room full of
roots that create bridges. At the top is a Plasma Beam door, so, use the bottom
door. Just climb downward to the bottom. Or, if you risk getting stunned when
you land, drop all the way down. A bunch of Beetles will pop out of the ground
down here, but you can ignore them if you want. The door will lead to Transport
Tunnel B. There's a bridge here, and a MISSILE EXPANSION is hidden beneath.
Past this tunnel is an elevator, which will lead to another part of Magmoor
Caverns. Scan the conduit and use the elevator.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 2

Creatures: 2
Geemer
Bloodflower

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 0

Total scans obtained: 54
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 12
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 4
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 7
Total percentage: 23%


Waving at the Wave Beam              /


Alrighty. Now that we are in Magmoor Caverns, you have two places to go. Let's
go to the right. There will be a Morph Ball corridor on the side of the wall.
Proceed through it to get to the other side, avoiding the Magmoor. Once you get
there, you can kill the Magmoor if you want. Head through the door and head
into the main part of Fiery Shores. A Magmoor should pop out of the lava. Kill
it, then destroy the boxes on your left. They block another Morph Ball passage.
Go through the passage, Bomb Jumping and slowly moving across the catwalks, to
get another MISSILE EXPANSION. Drop down to a ledge with a Triclops. Make sure
he doesn't spit you into the lava. Just jump across the platforms, avoiding the
Triclops, and head through the door. After the tunnel here, you should end up
in the Monitor Station. What a fine shortcut there! If you notice, you came out
of that door I told you to ignore before. Now from here, just head into
Phendrana Drifts and into the Shores.

Ok, proceed to climb up those “stairs”, but before you cross the gap using that
pillar to reach the door, turn around and you'll see a platform. Space Jump to
it, and find a similar platform lower from where you're at. If you've watched
the demo playing at the Title Screen, then do the same thing. If you haven't,
here's what you do. Use the R Button to look down at the platform, then hold
the L Button to hold the position. (You can't move while holding the R Button,
that's why you need to hold the L Button.) Seeing the platform is much better.
Use that view to help you Space Jump to the platform. Once you make it, Space
Jump to the ledge containing a huge Chozo Temple. Enter.

There will be a Pulse Bombu here, and some ice blocking the hallway. You can't
use a charged shot, because the Pulse Bombu will come right at you while you're
charging. Use a Missile to break the ice. Go through the tunnel to officially
enter the Chozo Temple. In the main hall, you'll see several platforms with
Crystallites leading upwards, a Baby Sheegoth on the ground, and a Statue
representing a Chozo holding the plane of existance on his hands. Climb up the
platforms, getting rid of the Crystallites as you go. Eventually, you'll come
to a bridge-like platform with Ice Parasites climbing all over it. Scan one of
those Ice Parasites, and kill them, then Space Jump to the corridor ahead.
Notice that you'll see several headshots of different Chozo made of rocks. The
Chozo Statue in front of you has it's hands frozen, and there's a door blocked
by a Chozo Gate. You can't break it at all, so scan it. I'll read what the scan
says.

“A statue depicting the bust of a Chozo Shaman adorns this door. A symbol is
carved into it's forehead. The translation reads: 'To pass my gaze, seek my
twin within this room.'”

Hmm, “To pass my gaze, seek my twin within this room.” And it's a bust of a
Chozo shaman....Alright. Scan each of those busts that I told you about while
walking towards the Statue with it's hands frozen. Scan each of them until you
encounter one that is a bust of another Chozo Shaman. You'll also see that
“several fractures are detected on the forehead.” Shoot a Missile at the bust
to open up a Morph Ball Slot. Use it, and the gate will unlock the door. Past
the door is another Morph Ball maze. Now, in order to go through this, you have
to get rid of the blocks that are below the blockage. There's a rock to lead
you down to clear the path. Just keep doing this until you reach a door that
leads to the icy Chapel of Elders. Head towards the power-up. Wait. What was
that shaking? Ah, probably nothing. Just keep heading towards it....well, now
it's gone. A couple of Baby Sheegoths have just appeared! Kill them and two
more Baby Sheegoths will reveal themselves.

Kill them, and an Adult Sheegoth will break through an ice wall with extreme
force. Wow, quite a big character, isn't it? Scan it first, and you'll realise
that the crystals on its back will absorb any shots you shoot at. The thing to
do is, you have to wait until he does an attack. (You can make it faster by
shooting the crystals, as he uses the stored power for his attacks.) After
the attack is over, he will start hyperventilating, indicating Adults have poor
stamina. While he is hyperventilating, shoot him in the head with Missiles. You
can only shoot a few before he's back to normal again. Keep doing this,
shooting his head with Missiles while he's hyperventilating, until he's dead,
allowing you access to the WAVE BEAM. Note that the Adult might drop a pick-up,
especially an Ultra Energy, so wait around until the Adult's carcass
disappears. Now, you can switch to the Wave Beam by pressing right on the
C-stick! You're going to use this a lot, so keep it equipped. Also, now you can
destroy those Bombus! Just head back to the Shores and save at the Save
Station.

DISCOVERY*
I found out how to make your Missiles able to rapid-fire! Just keep pressing
the Y and A buttons simultaneously to fire Missiles faster than normal! This is
great for those bosses that require Missiles to destroy, and that you want to
finish the battle quickly. (Example: Adult Sheegoth) But, in order for this to
work, you have to be switched to the Power Beam. Also, if you run out of
Missiles, just use bombs on his underside.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 1

Creatures: 1
Adult Sheegoth

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 0

Total scans obtained: 55
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 13
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 4
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 8
Total percentage: 25%


Super Missile add-on                 /


Yes, unlike Super Metroid and Zero Mission, the Super Missiles aren't a
different weapon. It's an add-on like Metroid Fusion, except you can still use
Missiles. Anyway, look around in the Ice Ruins East or Ice Ruins West. We're
looking for Ice Shriekbats. Once you find them, scan them, otherwise we won't
be able to get them after we get the Thermal Visor. Anyway, once that's done,
head into the Ice Ruins West. Here, do you remember the ruins that you got the
Chozo Lore? Well, since you have the Space Jump Boots, you can start climbing
up these small ruins from the inside. You should eventually reach a vantage
point, overlooking part of the Ice Ruins West. Right in front of you is a
stalactite, called a Stalactite. Scan it first, then shoot at it (with a
Missile) where your lock-on shows you, and the stalactite should fall to the
ground, providing a “stepping stool” to a higher place. Drop down and jump onto
the fallen stalactite, and to your left should be an alcove, jump up to it.
Now, just keep roof-hopping until you reach a purple door. These doors are Wave
Beam doors. Use your Wave Beam to open them.

Go through the tunnel, getting rid of the Scarabs and the Pulse Bombu, and
you'll arrive at the Ruined Courtyard. Now, we need to do some work in order to
progress. If you notice, you'll see a Spider Ball track which leads upwards,
but we don't have the Spider Ball yet, so we'll have to do the hard work for
now. You see the devices on both ends of the Courtyard? Those are Spinners.
Scan one. Basically, Morph Ball into them, and repeatedly use the Boost Ball to
activate them. Once you activate them both, the mouths of four statues will
open (they're at the top of the Courtyard) and a Slot will light up. Head over
to the Slot and place a Bomb in it to start filling the place with water. Cross
the floating sheets of ice over to the over side, and roll down the tube with
the Morph Ball and grab an ENERGY TANK. There's a hole to exit here. Fill up
the room again, because the water will have drained. Once you do that, jump
across the floating sheets of ice again, BUT, jump onto the wooden path
surrounding the middle pillar. (Be careful of Flickerbats.) Now, start climbing
to the top using your Space Jump.

Now, there are three doors here. The one to your left is not powered yet, the
one in front of you has an entrance to a Space Pirate base, and the one on the
right leads to a Save Station. If you're thinking correctly, the Save Station
should be your first priority. After you save, head into the Space Pirate base.
Immediately after you enter, an Auto-Defense Turret will activate. Use a few
Missiles to destroy it. All of a sudden, a Space Pirate will jump out of the
shadows and attack you. This is a Shadow Pirate. Scan him before he gets too
close to you. Proceed to destroy him, and head through to the next room. A
cutscene should should you getting detected by a drone, the door behind you
will lock, and a bunch of Space Pirates will come flying out of corridors.
These are normal ones, so scan one. These ones fire at you, but in close range
they can do melee attacks as well. Just keep hitting them with anything you've
got to defeat them. After they're all gone, head into the door down here to get
a map of the whole Phendrana Drifts, including the SP (Space Pirate) base.
W00t!!

There's a pathway to the upper floor in this room, (not the Map room) so head
up. Also, be careful of the Defense Turret here, it'll knock you off if you're
not careful. Just use Missiles on one whenever you find one. Head through the
door at the top level. Through the tunnel, you should reach Research Lab Hydra,
but there's a force field here. The nearby conduit should unlock the force
field. Apparently, you came at just the wrong time, as there are Space Pirates
in the Lab, so you must proceed to take them out. You'll have to search all
floors to get rid of all the Space Pirates. You'll know when you've got them
all when the music changes back to normal. Once they're all gone, head back to
the bottom floor of the Lab, and scan EVERYTHING. That includes scanning
everything on every floor. Some of the scans are actually Space Pirate Logs, so
scan them all. Once you're done scanning this Lab for info, you should have
accumulated about 5 Space Pirate Logs. Alright, shoot at the door in the roof
(at the top floor) and head on through. You'll be at an icy Observatory Access,
with a bunch of Turrets guarding the entry. Proceed to destroy all three, then
head into the Observatory, where you'll encounter a hoard of Space Pirates. -_-

Kill them off, then head to the computers and start scanning. (Also, check the
computers above and behind you once facing the computers on the ground. I'm not
sure if there are any scans to accumulate on those elevated ones, but check
anyway.) One of the computers should activate a Morph Ball Slot. You should
also have gained 2 more Space Pirate Logs. (Boy, we're swimming in those,
huh?) Anyway, use the Slot to activate another Slot, and use THAT one to turn
on some Spinners. Use all four of the Spinners at the bottom of the contraption
to finally activate the holographic simulation of the solar system where all
the Metroids took place. Scan all the planets to grab some info, but only two
scans will be added to your Research: Zebes, and Tallon IV. At the top of the
Observatory is a Save Station. Save it, then grab the Super Missile add-on
while heading towards the next room. (Or, you can grab the add-on before you
save....) Alright! Now you can use the powerful SUPER MISSILE! To use it,
Charge up a shot with your POWER Beam, (not your Wave Beam) and when it's fully
charged, press the Y button. This is great for blowing up things made of
Cordite. Note that this move uses 5 Missiles in order to work, so use them
sparingly. Let's end this subsection.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 14

Creatures: 3
Shadow Pirate
Space Pirate
Ice Shriekbat

Pirate Logs: 7
Mining Status
Security Breaches
Phazon Analysis
Parasite Larva
Glacial Wastes
Contact

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 4
Spinner
Zebes
Tallon IV
Stalactite

Total scans obtained: 69
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 13
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 5
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 9
Total percentage: 27%


Thermal Visor                        /


Anyway, head through the door here, and keep goin' until you reach an elevator.
This one will lead you to the Control Tower. As usual, you have to scan the
conduit next to the elevator if you want to use it. At the top, at the Control
Tower, you will be greeted to another small hoard of Space Pirates. Kill them
all, then you'll be treated to a cutscene showing Flying Space Pirates. Scan
one, then obliterate them. (Use Super Missiles.) After they're all gone, head
forward, and use the elevator to reach Research Lab Aether. (Scan the consuit
to activate it, of course.) Once you enter Lab Aether, you'll see a cutscene
showing a Metroid in a tube. It doesn't seem too life-threatening when in the
tube, but you'd better be careful with them once they're loose. Scan this
Metroid, and it will break out of the tube! Hit it with Missiles as much as you
can to destroy it. (No need to use Ice Beam, since you don't have it.) Now,
apparently, a Space Pirate saw the fight you had with the Metroid, so he'll
come busting through the window here to try to take you out. Heh, tough luck
Spacey. Beat him to death with your Beams. Don't waste any Missiles on him,
he's too weak for them. Anyway, since he broke a window in this room, the rest
of the Lab is accessible to you. There are some more Space Pirates here, so
proceed to destroy them all. Once they're all gone, head back to that room
where you encountered that Metroid, and scan everything. (Also, you could've
done that before you scanned the Metroid...) There are a total of 2 Space
Pirate Logs in this one room.

By now, you should have 50% of your Log Book filled! Just halfway there to
getting 100% scans! Alright. Drop down to the next floor. Scan the computers
here, and you should be able to obtain another Pirate Log. Keep going down the
catwalk, until you encounter another small catwalk above the one you're on.
Jump up to it, and roll through the catwalk using the Morph Ball, and grab the
MISSILE EXPANSION at the end. Head back to the catwalk you were on, and at the
bottom, scan the two computers. (nothing will be added to your Log Book,
though) Now, at the bottom floor, scan EVERYTHING, just like you did in Lab
Hydra. Once all the scanning is done, you should've obtained around 2 more
Pirate Logs. There's also an ENERGY TANK inside a stasis pod. Simply break the
pod with a Missile and collect the prize. Alright. The rest should just be
Metroids in stasis pods, so let's move on. Use the Wave Beam door in the floor
around here to continue. You will encounter a couple of Ice Beetles here in
this tunnel, so scan one before you take them out. I suggest you use a charged
Wave Beam shot to take them out, because if you just fire at them, they'll
burrow back into the ground, thus making it tougher than the normal Beetle.

Anyway, once the two are gone, head into the door here to enter the Research
Core. As soon as you enter, a Space Pirate will detect you, so destroy him.
After that, two Flying Pirates will come up. You know what to do to them.
(Super Missiles) Once you defeat them, this room should be free of Space
Pirates. Now, scan the computer on this top floor to terminate the central tank
control circuit connection. This is step one to unlocking the Thermal Visor.
Proceed down the room using the pathways until you come to another computer.
Scan this one to terminate the central tank auxiliary circuit connection. This
is step two. Finally, scan a certain computer at the bottom floor to terminate
the central tank main circ connection. Now, you can grab the THERMAL VISOR. You
can now switch to the Thermal Visor by pressing down on the D-Pad! Now, the
power to the whole base will shut off, meaning you'll be in complete darkness.
O_O (In case you're wondering, there are no Pirate Logs to download in the
Research Core.)

Some Shadow Pirates will immediately start attacking you. You actually can't
see these guys now, because the one that attacked you right when you entered
this place had a dysfunctional cloaking device. Since you have the Thermal
Visor, you can see these guys now. Proceed to destroy them, and get the hell
out of there, because Metroids are starting to break free of their holding
places. Once you get to the door at the top, you'll notice it won't
open.....switch to your Thermal Visor. There should be an icon beside the door.
This is a power conduit. In order to activate these, you'll first have to see
them with your Thermal Visor, and to actually activate 'em, shoot at it with
your Wave Beam. Now, in the tunnel ahead, some Sentry Drones should replace the
Ice Beetles, so scan one, then kill these things with charged Wave Beam shots.
Now, let's head back to the Hydra lab. At the top floor, there is a pod made of
Cordite. Blast it with a Super Missile to unveil a MISSILE EXPANSION. Now,
let's get the damn hell out of this base and head into the Save Station at the
Ruined Courtyard. Whew! (remember, you have to wear your new visor so you can
see the Shadow Pirates, and the way out.) End subsection.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 9

Creatures: 4
Flying Pirate
Metroid
Ice Beetle
Sentry Drone

Pirate Logs: 5
Meta Ridley
Metroid Studies
Phazon Infusion
Metroid Forces
Metroid Morphology

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 0

Total scans obtained: 78
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 15
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 6
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 10
Total percentage: 31%


Spider Ball                          /


This is, once again, one of the shortest subsections in this walkthrough, like
the Thermal Visor. Anyway, since we saved in the Ruined Courtyard, let's head
towards that door that wasn't powered. Now, remember what we did in the
Research Core? We'll have to find a power conduit right next to the door.
(Thermal Visor) Once you find it, you'll realise that it's blocked by Cordite.
Shoot the blockage with a Super Missile, then activate the power conduit.
(You'll need to always use the Wave Beam in order to activate a power conduit,
remember that.)

The door should be openable now. Just head through the Quarantine Access, going
through wooden Morph Ball bridges over a bottomless pit....don't worry, there
are boundaries on the bridge. Just keep going until you reach the Quarantine
Access. You'll see a huge pile of big rocks in the center. A cutscene will
occur, showing Samus walking towards the pile. All of a sudden, a rock will
break out of the ground behind Samus, and she'll turn around to it. Now, the
big pile of rocks will form into a huge rock monster, named Thardus, the
subject of Project Titan. (If you read the Pirate Logs, you should know what
I'm talking about...)

---------------------
BOSS: Thardus

This guy may be a little hard if you don't understand his battle pattern.
However, once you figure it out, he'll be a piece of cake. Scan this guy first.
Thardus only has a few attacks, and I'll explain each attack, and how to avoid
it. First is, he summons rocks out of the ground, and throws them at you. Just
shoot at the rocks to get rid of them. The rocks may also drop some pick-ups if
you need any. His second attack is pounding the ground and creating a line of
ice. Just dash to the side or double jump to avoid this. If you get frozen,
press B multiple times to break free. If you get frozen while in Morph Ball
mode, plant Bombs to escape. His third attack is morphing into a ball and
rolling around. Since he always rolls after you first, morph into a ball
yourself and use Boost Ball to escape. That's basically it for the attacks, now
I shall explain how to damage him. If you turn on your Thermal Visor, you'll
notice that a part of Thardus's body is lighted, indicating heat. Shoot at that
appendage until the outer sealing breaks open, revealing Phazon ore. Since
Phazon ore is exposed, your Thermal Visor will overload, thus all you can see
is gamma white. So, switch to your normal visor.

Now that some Phazon ore is exposed, shoot at it until it blows up. Notice
that his health goes down a little bit: this sequence is how to damage him.
He'll always use his third attack after you get rid of one of his appendages,
so be prepared. Also, make sure you don't have Thermal Visor on when you're
battling the rocks he summons, because explosions can also overload the Thermal
Visor. Anyway, after you destroy three of his appendages, he'll realise that he
needs to use strategy, so he starts summoning a blizzard, thus hindering your
view. Luckily, your Thermal Visor will allow you to still see his weak spots,
but you'll have to be dangerously close to Thardus when getting the exposed
Phazon ore. Anyway, continue through this until he has one appendage left,
which seems to be his head. He'll get really mad now, and will start using his
rolling attack more potently now. Luckily, the blizzard has ended at this time,
so you can see even better than before. (really) Since he's really mad now, be
prepared for a lot of dodging. Anyway, destroy his last appendage, and he will
fall, almost right on top of Samus.
---------------------

Thardus will break open, revealing a few Ultra Energys, Missile pick-ups, and
the....dun, dun, dun.....SPIDER BALL!! Now, you see the Spider Ball tracks
around here? Well, scan one first, then use it to head to an entrance to a
Magmoor Transport. We are not going to exit back to the Ruined Courtyard. Use
the elevator when you get there. We'll end this subsection, thus ending the
Extreme Temperatures section.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 2

Creatures: 1
Thardus

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 1
Spider Ball Track

Total scans obtained: 80
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 15
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 6
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 11
Total percentage: 32%


Infiltrating the Mines               /


This section will cover everything you need to get in every world, and
exploring the dangerous Phazon Mines. So, let's get busy. (Note: I decided to
add a little spice to the subsection names, so it's better to read without
getting bored.)


Wave Buster add-on                   /


Once you arrive in Magmoor Caverns, you'll notice a Save Station is behind you.
Might as well use it. Alright, head on through to the Magmoor Workstation,
being careful of the flamethrowers on the ceiling of the preceding tunnel. As
soon as you enter, a couple of Flying Pirates will assault you: take them out
as before, and head into the bottom floor. Now, turn on your Thermal Visor.
We'll need to search for three power conduits, but they aren't covered by
anything like Cordite or anything, so...do it. Once you do, a passageway filled
with lava in the “lower floor” with Triclops will cool, allowing access. You'll
also have a time limit to get there. So, find the way in the “lower floor”, and
head through that path that opened. At the end, is a scannable computer. Scan
it, and another path will open up, cooling the lava on that path as well. Go
through that path to reach another computer. Scan that one to open yet another
path, cooling the lava on that one as well. Head through that tunnel to finally
grab a well-deserved ENERGY TANK. Now, head toward a door somewhere in the
Workstation to head forward. (If you come to a tunnel with blockage, you're
taking the wrong one.)

You should come across a Puddle Spore, a large....creature...just scan it, and
then shoot at it's....mouth to make it turn over so you can use it as
a....platform....wierd creature. Anyway, keep going, through the GeoThermal
Core using more of those Puddle Spores, 'til you get to the other side. The
only thing I'll tell you now, is that in the following rooms, sometimes you'll
have to lock-on and fire a Missile at a rock stalactite to make a path. Just
keep going through, knocking down stalactites when you need to, going through
rooms, until you come to a dead-end. There's a Spider Ball track hidden around
here. Use it to cross the lava. At the elevator, use it to reach the Tallon
Overworld. Save and refill your ammo at your ship, then once you get to Tallon
Canyon, head to the Chozo Ruins elevator and use it. Once at the Ruins, head to
the Main Plaza. *whew*

Alright. In the Main Plaza, we have another Missile Expansion to grab. First,
head up to the bridge. If you look to your right while facing the bridge,
(while “up” there, get my drift?) you should see a ledge. Jump to that, then
face the tree. Start shooting at it until you come to a point where your shots
repel. Use a Super Missile on that spot to blow it open and reveal the
MISSILE EXPANSION. You'll have to Space Jump to reach it. Now, head to the
Ruined Shrine. Once there, use the half-pipe to reach a tunnel that leads to a
Spider Ball track. Use it, then head all the way to the Tower of Light. In
here, climb up the platforms until you can't climb anymore. Now, you see the
cracks on the pillars? Fire three Missiles at each crack to break the pillars,
and this will lower the Tower. Now, head up to the next platform quickly,
because some Plated Puffers will appear and circle the platform you were on.
These guys are different, in that they can't be destroyed with your Beam, so
scan one. A Missile will still get rid of them, but it's best you save your
Missiles for this job. Besides, they'll pop whenever you jump over them
for some reason. Anyway, keep climbing until you can't climb anymore, then
repeat the process. Watch out for the Oculus' though, they'll repel your
Missile shots if you hit them. Scan one first. Just keep going with this
process of lowering the tower, until you get to the Wave Buster.

To use the Wave Buster, charge up a shot with your Wave Beam, then press Y.
This will release a beam of energy at an enemy at the cost of 10 Missiles. If
you hold the A Button, you can continue shooting the beam at the cost of 5
Missiles every second. Since this beam has an auto-tracking feature, you don't
need to be locked-on to an enemy. Since this move is more costly than the Super
Missiles, only use this for special occasions.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 3

Creatures: 3
Puddle Spore
Plated Puffer
Oculus

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 0

Total scans obtained: 83
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 16
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 7
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 12
Total percentage: 35%


A very 'Ice Beam                     /


Now let's head over to the Ruined Fountain. Here, we're gonna get a Missile
Expansion. Jump into the fountain, and Morph. When water spews out, you will be
shot up to a Spider Ball Track. Use it to reach the MISSILE EXPANSION. Now,
let's head over to the Watery Hall. Head all the way to the part of the room
that you got the Charge Beam. There should be something blocking a Morph Ball
hole. Bomb it, then head through to get to the Dynamo. A little to your right
should be some blockage. Shoot a Missile at it to uncover a MISSILE EXPANSION.
Now, look around here. You should find a Spider Ball track. Use that to grab
another MISSILE EXPANSION. Now, let's head to back to the Gathering Hall. Head
to the top entrance, and climb on on of those red things, then Space Jump to
the ledge above. Bomb the grating here to reveal yet another MISSILE EXPANSION.
Now, let's head to the Furnace.

Once there, take the Spider Ball Track. Now, you'll be crossing disappearing
bridges, so let's keep quick. Roll through across the bridge, and immediately
plant a Bomb when you reach the end, you should be popped up in the nick of
time. Cross the next disappearing bridge and go through the Morph Ball Tunnel
until you officially reach the Furnace. Once you enter, if you look, you'll see
an out-of-reach Spider Ball track with some Plated Parasites crawling on it.
Scan one. Also, once you enter, some Beetles will pop up and attack you. Now,
there's an Ice Beam door here, and we can't go through those yet, so let's find
another Morph Ball hole. The one we're looking for has a Chozo Lore above it.
Scan the Lore, then head in. After the LONG tunnel, you'll notice the music
will have changed to a mystical, and somewhat scary track. Better tread
lightly. You should end up in the Crossway, in which you'll see a path leading
to an Ice Beam Door on your right, a half-pipe right in front of you, a ledge
past the half-pipe, and a hallway on the ledge that leads to a Blast Shield
Door. Use the half-pipe to reach the ledge, and once on it, look to your left.

There should be three Chozo Lores for you to scan right there. Scan them all,
then turn on your Thermal Visor. We're looking for something that is generating
a lot of heat. If you think it's the right one, scan it. If it says that it is
made of Cordite, then blast it with a Super Missile. This should reveal
something to scan. Scan it, and a Spider Ball track and a Morph Ball Slot will
reveal themelves, high above the half-pipe. Now, if you haven't mastered the
art of catching air in half-pipes, you should learn how to do so. Basically,
charge up your Boost as you start heading downwards. When you touch the half-
pipe, and you start to ascend, release, and you should be able to gain height.
Do this to reach the Spider Ball track, and when you get below the Slot, plant
a Bomb while still attached to the track, and you should pop up into the Slot.
Use the slot, and another Spider Ball track and Slot will appear. Do the same
thing as last time, and you should activate a slow-moving piston. Use your
Morph Ball to squeeze into the tiny compartment, and the piston will act as a
little “elevator”.

Once at the top, roll through the tunnel to collect a MISSILE EXPANSION.
Alright, head towards that Wave Beam door. Head through the tunnels until you
come to the Hall of the Elders. Before you drop down, go through the Morph Ball
hole up here. This will lead to a Missile Reload Station. There's only like,
three of these in the game, and they can be used infinitely, like the Save
Station, so you can scan it either before or after you use it. Anyway, after
you've done your business, (reload, scan) head into the Hall of the Elders and
fall down to bottom level. The light in the room will fade to total darkness,
the music will change to some type of battle music, and a Chozo Ghost will
appear. These are a real pain in the butt, so scan it first. You'll notice that
this enemy can't be defeated by any elemental force, so you can't use your Wave
Beam, and, when you get them, Ice Beam and Plasma Beam.

You can only damage them with your Power Beam, Missiles, or Super Missiles.
Also, the ghost only appears for a little while to attack, then it disappears.
Just beat this ghost and the room will get back to normal, except for the blue
glow on the statue's hands. Now, you may be wondering, “Why are Chozo Ghosts
attacking me? The Chozo have raised Samus, but yet they're attacking
here....what gives?” Well, there's only one explanation. According to the Chozo
Ghost scan, it says that due to exposure to Phazon, the ghost's actions have
become erratic, thus, it doesn't have time to think who it's attacking. Another
part of the explanation is that they stay in holy areas and attack anybody who
enters. Yes, Phazon is so powerful that it will affect spirits....O_o

Anyway, there's a Chozo Lore behind the statue, so scan it. Now, about the
glowing on the statue's hands. If you Morph into a ball while on it's hands, it
will start to move.....and it will throw you onto a track, you'll hit a bump,
and go flying towards a Spider Ball Track. Follow it to a Slot, use it and
three color-coded Slots will appear. Now, head to those three slots by jumping
up platforms. Once you reach them, shoot at the purple Slot with your Wave
Beam, then place a Bomb inside. The track (not the Spider Ball track) will
change. Morph into the statue's hands again, and it will throw you to a track,
but this time, you'll be shot up to a tunnel high above. The track will change
back to normal, and the purple Slot will reset itself. Go through the tunnel to
a door. Before you use it, scan the conduit, and the force field behind you
will be gone, allowing access to the door by Space Jumping up from the path to
the color-coded Slots. Head through the door. Past the tunnel is the Reflecting
Pool. Now, when I first entered this room, I thought that someone was staring
right at me.......it turns out it's just a statue.

Darn darkness. Anyway, if you scan the statue, it'll say something to the
affect that the lock underwater is stable. Well, dive in and find the lock.
Once you do, Bomb it. This will drain all the water, and will reveal a half-
pipe. Use it to get to the top floor. You might want to get rid of the Stone
Toads here before you try it, though. Anyway, at the top, enter the
Antechamber, (check the map) and you'll get the Ice Beam! Now, you can switch
to the Ice Beam by pressing down on the C-stick! This beam can be used to
freeze enemies in place. (obviously) This beam can also open those white doors
you kept on seeing. Anyway, since you got this beam, head back to the Hall of
the Elders. Now, you will probably fight a couple of Chozo Ghosts once you re-
enter here. Just two Super Missiles should kill each ghost. Don't worry about
ammo here, as you've got that Missile Refill Station! Anyway, once they're
gone, climb back to the color-coded Slots, and shoot the white one with your
Ice Beam, and plant a Bomb in the slot. The track will change once again, so
Morph in the statue's hands, and he'll throw you to the track, and it'll drop
you off into a hidden part of the room, and it contains an ENERGY TANK! Anyway,
find a hole to get you back out, then head back to the Reflecting Pool and use
the Save Station there. Once you use it, Morph Ball through the tunnel next to
the Station to reach an elevator to Tallon Overworld East.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 8

Creatures: 2
Plated Parasite
Chozo Ghost

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 5
Cradle
Worm
Hatchling's Shell
Infestation
Hope

Research: 1
Missile Station

Total scans obtained: 91
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 21
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 8
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 13
Total percentage: 42%


Defying “Gravity”                    /


Alright. Now we're in Tallon Overworld. Go through the tunnel, and soon you'll
come to some vines. Morph Ball through there, and quickly roll through the
Venom Weeds, and grab a MISSILE EXPANSION along the way. Keep going until you
get to a ledge overlooking the Frigate Crash Site. (Yep, the same Frigate you
went through in the beginning.) A couple of Flying Pirates will appear, so
freeze them with a charged Ice Beam shot, and once he's frozen, shoot a Missile
at him to break him to smithereens. Do that with the other one, then dive ALL
the way down to the pool of water, and safely landing on a bridge made of
vines. (Don't worry, if you miss the bridge, you can just jump up to it.)
Follow the right junction, and you'll emerge out of the water, into the shore.
Some Flying Pirates will spot you, but will mysteriously fly away.....if you
look closely at the box they were plundering, you'll see Phazon oozing out of
it....looks like they were taking some samples and left. Anyway, head into the
Landing Site and use your ship to restore all of your energy and supplies, and
to save your game. Now head all the way back to Phendrana Drifts. Most notably,
the elevator close to the Magmoor Workstation. Once there, if you look behind
you, you'll see a Spider Ball track.

Climb up it and open the white door at the top. Keep going until you get to the
Frozen Pike. (Notice the music changed....it's really cool...pardon the pun)
Anyway, once there, check your map. You should see three other purple doors.
Take the second one down. The next large room you should be at is the Frost
Cave, after some pathways filled with Ice Beetles and those old Scarabs. There
are two new enemies here. One is a Hunter Metroid, which is an adolescent
Metroid mutated with Phazon, and the other is a Glider, a floating creature,
capable of withstanding the energy of the Grapple Beam. A common “sport” that
these creatures are featured in sees which person can stay hanging with the
Grapple Beam for the longest time......well, that's what the scan says...
Anyway, you can't kill Gliders, so kill the Hunter Metroid. (You remember, in
the old games? Ice Beam and a Missile?) Once that Metroid is killed, look up at
the ceiling. You'll see some stalactites. Shoot Missiles at them in the
lock-on points, and they'll fall, allowing you to reach the Wave Beam door at
the other end.

Anyway, after a LONG Morph Ball tunnel, you'll finally reach Phendrana's Edge,
where you'll be greeted by two Flying Pirates. Remember, since you have the Ice
Beam, save your Missiles, you don't need to use Super Missiles anymore. Once
they're both gone, drop into the water. You might fall on an underwater enemy,
so don't jump if you do. Anyway, the underwater enemies down here are Jelzaps,
weird fish split into halves, linked only by electrical impulses. Their only
weak point is when they open up, shoot a charged Wave Beam at them when they
open, and their electrical impulses will fail, thus splitting the fish apart,
thus killing it. There are two of those down here. Once you've taken care of
them/avoided them, head into the door down here. Head through the Scatter
Bombu-filled tunnel, Morph Balling through the tight space at the end, to reach
the Hunter Cave. Shoot Missiles at the three stalactites on the ceiling. Two
will land in the water, creating island-like platforms, plus they'll crush the
two Jelzaps that are there.

Jump across the fallen stalactites, and reach the Wave Beam door at the end.
You should arrive at the Gravity Chamber after the next tunnel. Since it's very
hard to see in this mostly underwater room, turn on your Thermal Visor. Alas,
you'll see tentacles reaching from the bottom. These are Aqua Reapers. These
are similar to the Vine Reapers, just shoot at their tips to make them retract.
Use the Thermal Visor to get around this room, and to spot another coin, head
towards it once you see it. This is the GRAVITY SUIT!!! Now, you can move
freely underwater, as if you were on land, plus visor configurations allow you
to see better underwater. The only ability this suit lacks, is the ability to
stay in lava without taking damage. Ah well, at least you don't have to go
through under-lava rooms in this game.

Anyway, find your way out of the water, and head into the next door here.
You'll eventually head back into the Hunter Cave, where some Flying Pirates lie
in ambush. Kill them, then walk along the path up here to head to another new
door. Past the door is a series of underwater tunnels. Past the tunnels, you
should come to the Frozen Pike. As soon as you emerge out of the water, even
more Flying Pirates will attack. Take them out, then climb all the way to the
topmost door, and head back to the elevator. Use the elevator to head back to
Magmoor Caverns. Save at the Save Station behind you, then head all the way to
the Tallon Overworld elevator. From the Tallon Canyon, head back to the Frigate
Crash Site, and dive into the water. (I know how all this backtracking gets to
you, but please bear it, backtracking is exactly the thing that Metroid games
do.) Now, before you get to the other side, there's a MISSILE EXPANSION in an
alcove down here. Once you find it, start climbing rocks at the far end until
you come to a small tunnel. In it, is a Morph Ball tunnel. Once past that, you
should be at the other side.

Head to the door here, and break the blocks. You should be able to go through
now. Find your way to the next door, but its very hard to, so try moving around
in Morph Ball mode. This way, you can see better, since the the Morph Ball sets
off light. Anyway, once you got yourself to the next door, enter it to
officially be in the Space Frigate. Nice music, huh? Sort of a murky type of
track. Anyway, just drop down into the water here. Head through the tunnel down
here to resurface. Morph Ball through the wreckage when you get to it, and open
the door to come to two Turrets. Destroy them, then look for a power conduit.
(Remember, Thermal Visor, then Wave Beam the conduit) Once you've found it and
activated it, you should be able to open the next door. Head through the
tunnel, and you might come across some Tallon Crabs. Scan one of them before
they all disappear, because if they do, you'll probably have lost your only
chance to nab a scan. (I really haven't taken a second trip down to the Sunken
Frigate, so I'm not really sure if those Tallon Crabs re-appear. Why don't you
try it, after you scan them?)

NOTE: The Tallon Crabs do come back, every time you enter the Sunken Frigate.
So you can't miss this scan.  Thanks to norman starzycki for letting me know.

Anyway, if you're in these Crabs' way, you'll get hit, so, if you want to just
let the Crabs go to where they need to go, then you can do it, just be sure to
scan 'em first. Anyway, contrinue on either way. The next room should be the
Reactor Core. Remember this room? This is where you fought the Parasite Queen.
Nah, don't worry, Parasite Queens don't live underwater, so you can safely move
around here. If I'm not mistaken though, there should be a few Aqua Pirates in
this room. Scan one, then proceed to obliterate them. Now, turn on your Thermal
Visor, as we've got four power conduits to find and activate. Once they're all
activated, you can enter the next room. In this room, there's that same old
Save Point here, the first one you've encountered in the whole game. Go ahead
and use it. Now, you have to find two more power conduits in this room. (This
one's fairly easy, each of them is beside the door you need to open.)

Once you've got them, head into the next room, which is the Cargo Freight Lift
to Deck Gamma. Now, if you'll see in the freight, there's an ENERGY TANK
inside. Bust the blockage open with a Missile, then head in to collect it. Now,
since the freight doesn't work, (obviously, we're underwater) we'll have to
start climbing up using the debris, while finding three more power conduits to
proceed. The first one is right on the freight. The second one is on the wall
of this room if you look behind you while climbing. The third one is at the
top, so start climbing. Oh, and be careful of the Aqua Reapers. Once you get
close to the top, a Space Pirate will emerge out of a vent explosion, so he's
dead. He'll slowly rise to the surface.....just keep moving. Anyway, once
you've found all three conduits, you can head through the next door. Through
this access, you should come to another familiar room, the Biohazard
Containment. Beware as soon as you enter, as a Turret will activate.

There's a power conduit hidden in the machine to your right, so activate it.
Continue through, blasting those Turrets, until you get underwater. (Note:
there's a power conduit really close to the spot where you get underwater.)
There should be an Aqua Drone here, so scan it. Proceed to destroy it now.
There should be one more power conduit here, so activate it. This'll allow you
into the next room. BUT, before you do enter the next hallway, look for a
scannable door in one of the holding cells. If it says it's made of Cordite,
then blast it with a Super Missile to unveil a MISSILE EXPANSION. NOW, you can
go through the next hallway to the next room, the Biotech Research Area 1. A
few more Aqua Pirates should assault you. Stay on the platform you are on, and
get rid of them.

Now, once they're all gone, look to your left with Thermal Visor on to see a
power conduit. There are also two more power conduits. Once they are all
activated, you should be able to continue. Somewhere around here, depending on
how fast your are, your auto-tracking device should come up, detecting foreign
technology. (No, not the Frigate.) It'll also detect a transport to where that
technology is at, and that's where we are heading. (And the transport isn't
exactly in the Frigate, otherwise it would be plain weird.) Once you enter the
next tall room, an explosion will occur, and another dead Space Pirate will
slowly rise to the surface......ok, I had just about enough of that. Drop down,
and scan the Aqua Sacs down here, and enter through the next door. There should
be another Morph Ball tunnel here. Move along through it, and you'll come to a
maze.

Since this maze is underwater, you'll pop up MUCH higher with one Bomb. So, pop
up to the ledge above, then drop down on the other side. Now, if you noticed,
there's a shaft leading upwards. Let's go up that. First pop yourself with a
Bomb. Now, study the jump. Determine how high you will go before you start
descending. What you have to do now, is to plant a Bomb when you're a second
close to descending. If done correctly, you should pop up again. Keep Bomb
Jumping in this manner, until you reach the top, where an ENERGY TANK awaits.
Now, you can head to the other side of the maze, and continue to the Great Tree
Hall. Find your way to the surface, and you should encounter an Ice Beam door
as soon as you emerge. Before you enter it, scan one of the Seedlings here.
(They're the weird crawling creatures that spit out deadly seeds that home in
on you.) Head through the door, and the music will change to a really weird
track, as if it's forewarning you of the dangers ahead. Continue, blasting
Seedlings. As you cross over a bridge, you'll see a large amount of blue Phazon
below, with it crackling and shooting streams of electricity. Your suit will
also say on the HUD, in red, “Intense Radiation Detected.” Keep going, and
activate the elevator, and head down......to the dangerous Phazon Mines....

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 8

Creatures: 8
Hunter Metroid
Glider
Jelzap
Aqua Reaper
Tallon Crab
Aqua Drone
Aqua Pirate
Aqua Sac

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 0

Total scans obtained: 99
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 24
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 10
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 14
Total percentage: 48%


Someone set us up the Power Bomb!    /


That is a joke of that famous game that had bad translation....I forget the
name. Ask the message boards in GameFAQs what this reference means. Anyway,
this section is actually the hardest part of the game, in that being, the Save
Points are too darn far apart, and there are a lot of powerful Pirates and
defenses. Also, fighting the enemies will require some skill, and there are a
few fun puzzles, so let's get to work.

NOTE*
Like the Missile Launcher, I'm not listing the Power Bomb as an Expansion,
it'll be listed in the “Suit upgrades” list. Just to let you know. However, any
other Expansions you get will be listed.

Head through the next tunnel, seeing even more Phazon, and you'll arrive at the
Main Quarry.....this sure looks like it's above ground, to me. It's because the
Mines are close to the Impact Crater, so the ground is a little low down here.
Anyway, there's a Spider Ball track leading to a Save Point, so use it. You'll
have to scan the conduit to get access to it. After you save, head back to the
Quarry. You'll notice some Mega Turrets trying to fire at you. Scan one first,
then destroy each with three Missiles. Now, find the stairs around here, and
climb up them. Some Space Pirates up here will spot you, so kill them. Once you
get to the top, look for a power conduit. Once you activate it, the crane
controls will turn on. Head to the crane controls and scan the computer. You
should be able to move the magnetic crane close to a Missile Expansion. Now,
find the Spider Ball tracks around here, and use them to get to the end of the
crane, where it is close to the Expansion. Drop down to that magnetic thing,
then Bomb Jump to the MISSILE EXPANSION. (For some reason, you can't un-Morph
while on the crane.)

Once you've got that, head to where those two Mega Turrets were, and scan two
consoles to unlock the force field, allowing access into the Mines. The next
tunnel will have two Mega Turrets. Knock them out, and proceed to the Mine
Security Station. Head further, and some Shadow Pirates will attack. Remember,
you can see them with thermal imaging. Once they're all dead, continue on,
ignoring the shield blocking the door. Soon, you should get to the top floor,
where Wave Troopers will assault. Scan one. Now, the only way to beat these
guys is to use the Wave Beam, but you can make it easier by using partially
charged Wave Beam shots so that the electricity will keep them from moving. Get
rid of all of them, then continue on to the next room. In the next tunnel, turn
on your Thermal Visor. Now, use a charged shot on the barrier. A Shadow Pirate
will appear as soon as you get rid of the barrier, so that's why I wanted you
to turn on your Thermal Visor. Get rid of the next barrier in the same manner,
and another Shadow Pirate will appear.

Get rid of that one, then head into the next room: the Elite Research. There
are a couple of Space Pirates here, proceed to kill them. Now, scan the
computers. You should activate some platforms, plus get a Pirate Log. Climb the
platforms, and a couple of Wave Troopers should spot you. Kill them, then head
over to the computers they were at, and scan them. You should activate some
more platforms. Climb up them to encounter a Power Trooper. Scan this one.
These can only be killed with your Power Beam. These, to me, are the hardest
Troopers, unless you use a Super Missile...*hint hint* Once he's gone, use the
Spinner to point the Pulse Beam to the rock wall exactly opposite from where
you are. Now, scan the computer to activate the Pulse Beam, which will break
the rock wall and reveal a door. (If you can't figure out how to escape the
Spinner, just plant a Bomb.) Now, before you enter, use the Spinner to point
the Pulse Beam exactly left of where you are. Scan the computer to fire it
again, and you should reveal a MISSILE EXPANSION. (You should hear a sound
effect if you got the right one.) You should have about 50% items now! Now,
head into the door that was revealed. Past the next tunnel is the Ore
Processing. A couple of Power Troopers should appear. Kill both, then head to
the machine with the holo-replica of the Spider Ball tracks on the tower. Place
one Bomb in the slot to line up the blue Spider Ball track. Take the blue one
to get to the second floor with the second machine.

Place two Bombs in the Slot, then head back to the bottom machine, and place
three Bombs in it to line up the red Spider Ball track. Use the red track, and
head through the door at the end of the track. You might be assaulted by a Wave
Trooper. If so, proceed to kill him. Past the tunnel filled with Scatter
Bombus, is an elevator to Level Two of the Mines. Take in the view of the
Impact Crater as you descend. There are some boxes in the small nook that the
next door is in, but stay away from them when you fire at them, because they
will explode. Anyway, these boxes will contain Missile or Energy pick-ups,
whichever the game decides you need more. Anyway, in this tunnel, find the
explosive box on the ledge. Shoot at it once you find it, and it will blow
open, revealing a Missile Expansion and killing two Space Pirates hiding in the
ducts. Grab the MISSILE EXPANSION, and head to the next room, the Elite
Control. As soon as you enter, a cutscene will occur, showing an Elite Pirate
waking up from his stasis pod, and smashing it open. Thus, you'll have to fight
it. Scan it first. Two Super Missile shots to the head should kill him. Beware
when his hand glows: he absorbs shots when he does that. The best time to hit
him is when he's about to shoot Missiles or create a shockwave. When he dies,
he should blow up, (eww) thus deactivating the force field to proceed. (O_o)

Anyway, once this happens, some Ice Troopers will notice, so start taking them
all out. Scan one first, of course. The best way to kill these guys is to fire
a fully charged Ice Beam shot to freeze them, then shoot them with a Missile.
Once they're all gone, (Use the background music as a reference. If it changes
back to normal, you've got them all.) scan the computers on the bottom level.
You should gain two more Pirate Logs.  Close to the stairs to the next floor
are a bunch of other computers. You should gain another Pirate Log. Head up to
the top floor, (there are no Pirate Logs on the second floor) and scan the
computers there. You should be able to gain 5 (!!) more Pirate Logs, plus
you'll deactivate the Force field here. Once you've collected them all, proceed
through the next door to the Ventilation Shaft. As soon as you enter, toxic gas
and some Puffers will fill the room. Get to the other end quickly. Now, the
next room is filled with Wave and Power Troopers. If you're low on health, then
stand as close as you can to the main part of the Ventilation Shaft without
getting hurt, (watch your Danger Meter) and start killing some Puffers. They
will drop Energy and Missile pick-ups, so just charge your Beam to reel them
in. Keep doing this until you're filled up, then head to the next room. Ignore
the computers when you enter: they contain no Pirate Logs. Immediately, a
couple of Wave Troopers will drop in and attack. Kill them, then look down from
where the platform is.

You should see a couple of Power Troopers. Kill them, then drop down to where
they were. Open the force field just in case you want to get out. Down here,
scan the computers. You should gain yet another Pirate Log. Anyway, head
through the door down here, stroll through the tunnel, and arrive at the
Central Dynamo. Head to the central machine, and a Sentry Drone will activate.
This one has a cloaking device, thus you can't scan it. Just shoot at it until
it's dead. Wavebuster is the best weapon for dealing with this nuisance. (Its
guns give away where it is. Also, you can't lock-on to it.) Once it's dead, the
“lower floor” of the room will unlock, and a maze of electricity beams will
appear. Just head through this slowly to get to the center. (There are no
Triclops.) There are some electricity beams that will shut on and off, plus,
whenever you get to a puddle of water, place a Bomb in it to splatter the
water, thus short-circuiting some electricity beams to allow you through. Head
to the center to grab the POWER BOMBS! When in Morph Ball mode, press Y to set
a Power Bomb. The blast is strong enough to break Bendezium-made structures.
Now, head into the un-blocked Ice Beam door here to get to a Save Station. Oh
man, I bet you needed one of those! We'll end this subsection now.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 15

Creatures: 5
Mega Turret
Wave Trooper
Power Trooper
Ice Trooper
Elite Pirate

Pirate Logs: 10
Elite Pirates
Metroid Prime
Hunter Weapons
Prime Breach
Chozo Ghosts
Chozo Studies
Chozo Artifacts
Prime Mutations
Omega Pirate

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 0

Total scans obtained: 114
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 27
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 10
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 15
Total percentage: 52%


Grappling for joy                    /


Alright. About now, whenever you come across enemies, they will drop new
pick-ups. These are basically yellow glowing....um....balls... Just...when you
see it, scan it. Anyway, let's head back to the Omega Research. Once you enter,
an Elite Pirate, free of his stasis pod, will smash the force field, disabling
it. Just hit him with two Super Missiles to the head. Get back to the top
level using the pathway past that now-gone force field, and jump across the gap
with the platform hovering above. There's a door blocked by Bendezium rocks.
Power Bomb it, then enter the door to get a full map of the Mines. Now, head
back to the Ventilation Shaft, and Power Bomb the Bendezium grating to break
it, revealing a computer to stop the gas, and revealing an ENERGY TANK. Now go
get it.

Now, head back to the Ore Processing. There's a third machine to your right, so
Space Jump to it and Power Bomb the Bendezium. Now, plant two Bombs in this
machine, then drop down to the second one, where you will plant three Bombs,
then drop down to the bottom one and plant one Bomb. This should line up the
yellow Spider Ball track. Climb up it, and if successful, you should reach the
top floor, with a door, leading to the Grapple Beam. This is The. Shortest.
Subsection. Ever. The door on the other side will lead back to the Main Quarry,
use a Grapple Point to get to it. Scan the Grapple Point first. Take the door
to head back to the Main Quarry. Now, from here, after you kill the Space
Pirates, head into the Security Access A. The wall to your left when you enter
is made of Bendezium. Power Bomb it to reveal another MISSILE EXPANSION. Now,
exit the Phazon Mines....but we'll be back.

NOTE: The Japanese seem to always get better things, screwing us Americans off.
The JPN version of this game has a better, more original Grapple Beam
acquirement cutscene. If you want to see the differences between the two
cutscenes, head to www.metroid2002.com for videos.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 2

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 2*
Power Bomb Ammo
Grapple Point

Total scans obtained: 116

* means that all scans of that section in the Log Book have been obtained
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 28
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 11
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 0
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 16
Total percentage: 55%


THE X-RAY VISORZ! THEY DO NOTHING!!! /


If you don't watch the Simpsons, then you won't get this joke of a joke making
fun of Arnold Schwarznegger. *gasps for air* Anyway, head back to the Great
Tree Hall and start climbing. Somewhat at the top, you'll see a tower with a
Spider Ball track spiraling around it. Head to the top somehow, and head to the
Life Grove Access, which is really just a Morph Ball maze. You'll actually
notice a point in the maze where it is shaped like a full circle. Using the
Boost Ball, get to the top of the maze. Bomb around the top to uncover a
MISSILE EXPANSION. Continue to the Life Grove, where you can grab the X-RAY
VISOR. ....Since that was short, I'll continue this subsection until we get a
few expansions. Anyway, to exit, place a Power Bomb once right smack in the
middle of the room to uncover the WHOLE Life Grove. Proceed to climb up and out
of here, and some Chozo Ghosts will appear. Take them all out to lunch, then
proceed to exterminate them. (o_o......j/k about the lunch part)

Once they're all gone, head out of the Life Grove by heading through the exit
that the cutscene showed you, then head to the Chozo Ruins. Alright, from here,
(you should be at the Reflecting Pool) head over to the Furnace. Once there,
kill the Chozo Ghosts, then look for the part of the ground that is really
cracked. Power Bomb that floor section. This should open up a half-pipe. Use
it to reach the elevated Spider Ball track. Head through the maze of Spider
Ball tracks to get to a MISSILE EXPANSION at the end. Now, head to the Watery
Hall, then jump in the water. (which is free of toxins now since you beat
Flaaghra) Once you're at a deep end of the water, find a tunnel. This tunnel
should lead to another MISSILE EXPANSION. I also forgot to tell you: now that
you have the Ice Beam and everything, Chozo Ghosts will start to appear in most
of the rooms instead of the Hall of the Elders. The reason I pointed this out
is because someone on the message boards was wondering if this was supposed to
happen. So, anybody else wondering that and reading this will be informed...
Anyway, once you got that Expansion, head to the Ruined Fountain.

Once there, head into the door that we haven't gone through yet. Head through
the tunnels until you get to the Magma Pool. Grapple across, then plant a Power
Bomb once on the other side. The wall in front of you should break and reveal a
Chozo Lore, and a POWER BOMB EXPANSION. Get both, then head through the door.
In the following hallway, head to the next door, but don't open it. Instead,
Morph into a ball, and roll through the plant with red leaves. The red leaves
hide a tunnel, which contains a MISSILE EXPANSION. Once it's grabbed, continue
into the Training Chamber, where two Chozo Ghosts will appear. Once you get rid
of them, the mouths of the statues on both sides of the half pipe will blow
open, revealing Morph Ball Slots.

The Slot on the left will reveal the exit, the one on the right will lower a
piston. So, activate 'em, left to right, then head into the piston quickly, as
you've got a time limit once it's lowered. The piston will take you up to a
Spider Ball track. Use it to get to a tunnel, which in turn will get you to a
small room with “windows” overlooking the Chamber. This room holds an ENERGY
TANK. Now, head towards the exit, moving through the maze with the pistons, and
emerge at another balcony overlooking the Main Plaza. Before you drop down,
though, use the Grapple Point up here to swing yourself to a MISSILE EXPANSION.
We should be pretty much done here....for now. Head to the Magmoor Caverns from
here, and I'll end this subsection.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 1

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 1
Newborn

Research: 0*

Total scans obtained: 117
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 33
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 12
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 1
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 17
Total percentage: 63%


Ice Spreader add-on                  /


Alright, head to the Shore Tunnel, but while we're on the way, let's make a
stop in the Triclops Pit. (I'm assuming you took the elevator that has the
three doors around it in Chozo Ruins.) Anyway, kill the Flying Pirates so they
won't be a nuisance to you while you're doing this. Alright, from the platform
you are standing on, stand on the boxes at the edge, and turn on your X-Ray
Visor. You should see an invisible platform. Space Jump onto it, then carefully
jump across platforms until you get to what seems like a MISSILE EXPANSION.
If you turn off your Visor, you'll see that it's a pillar. Shoot a Missile at
it to really reveal the Expansion, making it grabbable, so grab it.

Alright, now you can head into the Shore Tunnel, once there, scan the tunnel to
find it is made of Bendezium. Place a Power Bomb to blow it open. Head under
the tunnel to get the ICE SPREADER. Now, when you press the Y Button while your
Ice Beam is fully charged, you'll shoot a blast of ice, which, when it hits,
leaves a huge sheet of ice, freezing any foes that get caught in the ice. This
attack uses up 10 Missiles, so use this sparingly. Well, since there really
isn't a way to lengthen this subsection here, then I guess we're all done.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 0

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 0*

Total scans obtained: 117
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 34
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 12
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 1
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 18
Total percentage: 65%


The “Plasma”'s burning me alive!     /


Head to the Geothermal Core, as this place holds the item we're looking for in
this subsection. Find a place to climb up rock ledges, and use the Grapple
point to get to the first cylinder. Head inside the Spinner up here. Use it to
raise part of the cylinder, thus creating a higher platform. Jump to the next
cylinder, and do the same thing. Jump to the next cylinder and do the same
thing again, then use the Spider Ball track to get to the higher part of the
cylinder. Jump to the second cylinder, on the higher part, and use the Slot.
This will raise the roof of the room, revealing a whole mess of Spider Ball
tracks. Now, start moving on the Spider Ball track. Now, this is probably one
of the most fun things you'll do. You basically move around in a huge amount of
Spider Ball tracks in fascinating ways, also avoiding Plated Parasites. Just
follow the tracks, circling the whole room, until you get to the Ice Beam door
at the end. Behind it is the PLASMA BEAM. Welcome to the most broken beam in
the game. And you know what? I LOVE it. Now, let's lengthen this subsection
by collecting everything else in the Phendrana region. Since we're close to the
Magmoor Workstation, use the elevator there to head to the Phendrana region.

Once there, use the Spider Ball tracks and head up to the Ice door. In this
pathway, where a Pulse Bombu hovers, shoot at the sheet of ice with your Plasma
Beam to melt it, revealing an ENERGY TANK. Now, head to the Frost Cave. Use the
Glider here to get to the other side of the room. Once on that other side,
shoot a Missile at the stalactite here to make it crash down to the frozen
lake, breaking the ice. Head down there and collect a MISSILE EXPANSION. Now,
we can head to Phendrana's Edge. Since you have the Grapple Beam, you can use
the Grapple points to head up to the top, where a POWER BOMB EXPANSION lies in
wait past a Morph Ball tunnel. Now, head to the Gravity Chamber. Get to the
top, and use the Plasma Beam on the ice in the ceiling to reveal a Grapple
point. Use it to reach yet another MISSILE EXPANSION. Now, head all the way
back to the Quarantine Cave, and use the Grapple points to get to another
MISSILE EXPANSION behind a Morph Ball tunnel. Now, let's head back to the
Phendrana Shoreline and save. You may notice that there are more Adult
Sheegoths now. Just destroy them with your Plasma Beam since you have it, no
need to use any Missiles.

Also, don't think you're safe if you stand on a platform, away from their
reach, because they'll stomp the ground, causing you to fall because of the
tremors. Anyway, once saved, act like you're going to enter the Chozo Temple,
except when you get there, use a Super Missile on some Cordite out here. (Use
Scan Visor in case you can't find it.) This will reveal a computer. Scan it,
and a way to a MISSILE EXPANSION will open up. Collect it. Now, inspect each
column on the lower ground. We're looking for a transparent sheet of ice. Once
you find the correct one, you'll see a MISSILE EXPANSION behind it. Use your
Plasma Beam to melt the ice so you can retrieve it. Now, head over to the Ice
Ruins East. Take out the Sheegoth, then search for another transparent sheet of
ice.

Melt in the same manner as last time, and grab the MISSILE EXPANSION behind it.
Now, start climbing the ruins. When you get to the little alcove area, find a
Spider Ball track. Follow it to grab another MISSILE EXPANSION. We've only got
9 more of these Missile Expansions to go! Now, head to the Ice Ruins West. Once
there, start roof-hopping. One roof has a sheet of ice on it. Melt it and
collect the POWER BOMB EXPANSION inside. Now, I guess we've got everything, so
let's head back to the Main Quarry of the Phazon Mines.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 1

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 0*

Total scans obtained: 118
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 41
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 13
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 3
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 19
Total percentage: 76%


Flamethrower add-on                  /


Alright. Head to the Mine Security Station. Now, search for a Bendezium-made
wall and Power Bomb it. A computer should be behind it. Scan it to deactivate
the force field blocking the Plasma Beam door. Enter the door to grab the
FLAMETHROWER. The Flamethrower can now be used by charging up a Plasma Beam
shot, and pressing the Y button. Hold A for continuous fire. This move requires
10 Missiles to use, and then uses 5 Missiles with each second you use it. This
item is really useless. The only thing I can think of for using it for is when
you're stuck in a small room packed full of Space Pirates. I heard somewhere
that the Flamethrower actually enhances the distance of the Plasma Beam, but
that isn't even true. It's actually shorter of range than the beam itself. Head
all the way to the Central Dynamo and save. I'll end this short subsection
now.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 0

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 0*

Total scans obtained: 118
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 41
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 13
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 3
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 20
Total percentage: 77%


This Suit doesn't “Phazon” me!       /


Alright, in the Central Dynamo, break the blockage in front of the Ice Beam
door. The next room has quite a few Mega Turrets really close together. A Super
Missile should destroy all of them. Head into the next room, where a cutscene
will occur. It'll show some Space Pirates and some Metroids, seperated by a
force field....hehe, time to get a little sneaky. Scan the computers here. One
of them will open the force field, thus releasing the Metroids. Now just sit
back and relax, and watch those Metroids and Space Pirates fighting each other.
This is a good break from you having to destroy every enemy. Of course, some
Metroids are likely to survive, and will search the room for some more
predators. Kill them when they find you. (Notice I said “when”, they will
always find you even if you try to hide.) Anyway, once all the enemies are
dead, proceed into the room that was blocked by the force field. Turn on your
X-Ray Visor, and you'll see invisible platforms. Use the mushrooms here to get
to a higher point, and jump across the platforms to the other side.

Waste a few Metroids here, then start climbing using the mushrooms. Keep your
X-Ray Visor off when fighting the Metroids, but when you aren't fighting, keep
the X-Ray Visor on. Anyway, keep climbing and using another invisible platform,
and you'll come to a Spider Ball track. Before you take it, Power Bomb the wall
to your left. It should break open. Keep going, and Power Bomb the next wall.
That one should break and reveal a Morph Ball bridge, complete with a Spider
Ball track to keep you on it. Cross it, then use your X-Ray Visor to spot
another invisible platform. Use it to hop across to another ledge with a
MISSILE EXPANSION. Get back to the first Spider Ball track and cross it to
get to a door. Just keep going until you get to an elevator that leads to Level
Three of the Mines. You know what to do to activate an elevator. Again, take in
the sites of the Impact Crater as you descend.....

The next room should be the Fungal Hall Access. Take care of the Space Pirate
here. Now, you're going to have to act quickly with this move. Drop down all
the way into the Phazon. Look around and you should see a MISSILE EXPANSION
under a mushroom. Quickly grab it and head out of the Phazon. Head to the next
room, the Fungal Hall A. Nothing really special. Just use the mushrooms to
cross the pools of Phazon, killing Hunter Metroids as you go. At the end, use
the Glider to get to the door. In the Phazon Mining Tunnel, Power Bomb the
Bendezium, and head into the maze. There's one part where a bridge over some
Phazon disappears, so you'll have to use Boost Ball to get to the other side.
Just find your way out without getting in the Phazon, and head into the Fungal
Hall B. This room's a little more interesting. Although this room has mushrooms
to platform over Phazon like before, it's pitch black, except for the glow of
Phazon, which really doesn't light up the room.

So, use your Thermal Visor to see where the mushrooms are. It's still hard to
see, but please bear it. There are also regular Metroids here, just to be
aware. At the end, you'll see a circle of tiny mushrooms just on the “shore” of
the Phazon. Place a Bomb right in the center of the circle to uncover a MISSILE
EXPANSION. Alright, head back up to where the Glider was in this room. There's
a Missile Recharge room to your left once facing the Glider if your Missiles
need refilling. Anyway, the door at the end will get you to the Quarantine
Access B. There are some invisible Bombus here. (If they have an actual name,
let me know.) You can't scan these fellas, so no worry about missing a scan on
those guys. Just get rid of them. How, you ask? Turn on your X-Ray Visor, and
you'll see. Once they're gone, jump across the mushrooms to get to the Metroid
Quarantine B. You'll see some Plasma Troopers appear. Scan one. To beat these
guys is very simple and easy. At least two charged Plasma Beam shots should
kill them. Now, find the Spider Ball track here, and start climbin'.

Once you get to the platform above the Phazon pool, look up, do a forward jump,
and immediately Grapple the Grapple point when you can reach it. You may have
to get rid of the Plasma Troopers at the other side before you attempt this.
Once you get to the other side, scan the computer. This will open the force
field to the small lab down here. Also, you'll have to fight two Wave Troopers
and a Plasma Trooper. Once they're all gone, look around in your Scan Visor for
a Cordite-made stasis pod. Shoot a Super Missile at it to unveil a MISSILE
EXPANSION. There's also a Pirate Log to get here. Head into the door at the
bottom for a Save Station. Save, then head to the top floor of the lab. Past
the door up here is the Elite Quarters Access. When you enter, a Plasma Trooper
will drop from a vent to start attacking. Kill him, then melt the ice at the
top of the barrier to allow access to the door into the Elite Quarters. Head
forward towards the large stasis pod....past the ominous surroundings of the
room. When you get close enough, the large Elite Pirate in the pod, the Omega
Pirate, will waken. It will catch sight of Samus, and break the pod open with a
smash....thus the battle begins....

---------------------
BOSS: Omega Pirate

Back in the days when there were no strategies for the game, Omega Pirate was
one of the hardest bosses in the game. In fact, some people couldn't beat him
until after like...a bazillion times. But now, when strategies and walkthroughs
for this game are abundant, Omega Pirate is like a....wimp...let's put it that
way. Anyway, scan this ugly thing first. His attacks are basically the same as
an Elite Pirate's. He smashes the ground to create a shockwave, has a
missile-firing backpack on him, and has that glowing hand which absorbs all
weapon fire. You already know how to avoid those attacks. Now, for the
offensive strategy. Instead of shooting at his head like you did with the
Elites, you'll have to destroy his protective armor, which are basically Phazon
globules. You can use Missiles or Super Missiles to destroy his armor, but
another effective way without using up Missiles is to use charged Plasma Beam
shots. If shot correctly, two charged Plasma shots will get rid of each part.
Once you get rid of all his protective armor, he will send out some Pirate
Troopers to deal with you, and he'll disappear. (These are those color-coded
Troopers, to let you know.)

Use the time he's invisible to quickly destroy the Troopers. If 10 seconds have
passed and you haven't taken care of all the Troopers, ignore them and switch
to your Power Beam, and start charging. If you have taken care of all of them,
then do the same thing. Now, switch to your X-Ray Visor. There's a secret to
where he goes to rebuild his armor. There are three Phazon pools. One on
the north of where the entrance door is, one on the right, and one on the left.
He should appear on the north one. When/if he does, shoot a Super Missile at
him immediately. (There should also be a strange noise accompanying his X-Ray
Visor appearance.) This will lower his health down by a lot. He should next
appear on the pool on the right of the door. When he appears, shoot another
Super Missile at him to get him a little below half health. By now, extra
color-coded Troopers should appear, but ignore them. Now, Morph into a ball,
head to the last Phazon pool. When you hear that strange sound (the sound of
him appearing in the X-Ray Visor) plant Bomb to pop you up, plant a Power Bomb,
then quickly un-Morph and switch to your X-Ray Visor. (For some reason, OP is
invincible to damage while invisible unless the X-Ray Visor is on. If done
correctly, he should be dead. Of course, only if he follows that pattern. He
may do another pattern, but I'm not entirely sure. I've only fought him once or
twice.

*thanks to that one speedy video of beating Omega Pirate for this strategy*

*NOTE:
The Power Bomb strategy only seems to work on the PAL version of the game. So
if you don't have the PAL version, just stick to firing Super Missiles at him.
---------------------

Once he's beaten, the Omega Pirate will fall right on top of Samus. You'll see
Phazon coming out of him, with a lot of bubbling. Finally, Samus will emerge
from the Omega Pirate, dripping Phazon, and her suit's color has changed, as
well. Since she has been exposed to pure Phazon, the Phazon has changed her
suit, allowing her to stand in most Phazon forms. Notice I said “most”, we will
encounter Phazon later on that will damage you. Samus has now acquired the
PHAZON SUIT! (If you notice, her suit now has a neat aura around it. This aura
also shows that the suit's shielding capacity has increased dramatically.) To
exit here, find the elevator and activate it, then walk along the catwalks, to
the door, which will lead to the last ENERGY TANK. Scan the conduit here to
unlock the gate. Walk through the Phazon, through the door, and into the Phazon
Processing Center.

NOTE: Once again, the JPN version gets a different Phazon Suit acquirement
cutscene. Note, I said DIFFERENT. That doesn't mean it's better. *ahem* Check
www.metroid2002.com for videos of the differences.

There will be quite a few color-coded Space Pirates here, so take them all out.
Now, go on one of the ledges here. If you're on a ledge where you hear the
pulsing noise of an item the most, (it's at the right wall of the room when
coming out of the door on the catwalk) Power Bomb the wall to collect another
MISSILE EXPANSION. Head up to the very top of the room, and head through, to
Magmoor Caverns. Just head through the tunnels and blast away at the Bendezium
rocks. Remember this place now? The Magmoor Workstation. Let's head all the way
back to the Tallon Overworld Landing Site, and restore everything at the ship
and save. Alright, we're going to clean up, now. First, head to the Root Cave.
Here, use the Grapple point to reach the other end, and start climbing.
Eventually, you'll see to come across a dead-end. Use the X-Ray Visor. While
standing on a platform, you should see a MISSILE EXPANSION. (If you have X-Ray
Visor on.) Grab it, then head through the door up here for another MISSILE
EXPANSION. Now, head to the Great Tree Hall. At the top, use the X-Ray Visor to
spot an invisible platform. Use it to reach a door, which behind it is the last
MISSILE EXPANSION. Alright, head back to your ship and recharge and save. End
subsection and section.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 3

Creatures: 2
Plasma Trooper
Omega Pirate

Pirate Logs: 1
Special Forces

Chozo Lore: 0

Research: 0*

Total scans obtained: 121
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 3
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total percentage: 86%
* means that you have acquired the maximum there is in the game


Getting all the Artifacts            /


You may notice that after you get the Phazon Suit, you won't progress through
the game's storyline anymore. That is because there are 12 Chozo Artifacts to
find. Now, Artifacts that you collect are a little strange, because when you
collect one, it will add a scan to your Log Book, plus will add a percent in
your item percentage. (You can get the scan early by grabbing the Artifacts'
hint locations.) For this reason, just for this section, I added the Artifacts
as a seperate list in the scan box and the item list. Also, on the beginning of
each subsection, I will show the exact hint that the game gives you when you
scan it. Now, let's get busy.


Artifact of Truth                    /


While on top of your ship, if you look straight ahead, you'll see a door on a
high ledge. Now, look a little bit to your left, (past the waterfall) and you
should see some ledges. Climb up them, and when you get to the top, head
through the tunnel, and head into that door you saw. Go through the straight
hallway filled with Tangle Weeds and Seedlings, and you'll come to a scenic
glass-made tunnel, where you can see the Impact Crater. The symbol right in the
middle of the enlarged part of the tunnel is a Pirate Log, so scan it. Man, the
cutscene showed everything around here, huh? Anyway, head into the Temple,
which is mysteriously floating...... Once you enter the Artifact Temple, you
should see a window showing a platform below. Take the hallway to the right to
grab a Chozo Lore, and head into the left hallway to grab another Chozo Lore.
You'll notice this hallway leads downward, so take it, and step onto that
platform. You should see another one of those symbols, like it's a Pirate Log,
but it isn't, and is colored pale blue. Grab it, and you should have the
Artifact of Truth! Now, scan the totems here. You should grab the clues for all
Artifacts except 4. Once you've gotten them, head back to your ship and save.
Now, let's see what the Artifact of Strength clue gives us....

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 11

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 1*
Artifact Temple

Chozo Lore: 2
Statuary
Binding

Research: 0*

Artifacts: 8
Truth
Strength
Elder
Wild
Lifegiver
Chozo
World
Spirit

Total scans obtained: 133
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 3
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total Artifacts obtained: 1
Total percentage: 87%


Artifact of Strength                 /


“The heat of Magmoor was a test for many
warriors. A Shrine in their honor holds
the Artifact of Strength.”

Magmoor is an immediate clue right there, so let's go there. Head all the way
to the Monitor Station. Climb up to the door like before, except, while on the
catwalk to the door, look around for a platform. Space Jump onto it, then Space
Jump to another catwalk above. Once at the top of the tower, get on top of the
Spinner and use it to extend a bridge. Once it's fully extended, get to its end
and Space Jump to the rock ahead. Follow the rock ledges until you reach a
door, which behind the door is the Shrine. Grab the Artifact. Now, plant a
Power Bomb right in front of the statue, and the floor should blow open,
revealing a path. Follow it to a POWER BOMB EXPANSION. Exit using the Morph
Ball hole and you'll get dropped off at the Fiery Shores.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 0

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0*

Chozo Lore:

Research: 0*

Artifacts: 0

Total scans obtained: 133
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 4*
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total Artifacts obtained: 2
Total percentage: 89%


Artifact of Elder                    /


“Invaders have claimed Phendrana as their own.
A Tower sits atop their fortress. Collapse it to
reveal the chamber where the Artifact of Elder
is held.”

So, let's head to Phendrana Drifts, all the way to the Control Tower of the
Space Pirate Base. Once there, get on top of a tower. (Space Jump while on top
of door. If the tower has some boxes inside, then you've got the right one. On
the other side of the boxes is a little vantage point to where you can see
outside. There will be some ice covering it. Melt it, then fire a Missile at
the explosives you see. This should cause the tower with those explosives to
fall, creating a passageway to the Artifact. Once you got the Artifact, climb
inside the fallen tower and roll through the small passageway to get back up to
the Control Tower. Let's look at the next clue.....

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 0

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0*

Chozo Lore:

Research: 0*

Artifacts: 0

Total scans obtained: 133
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 4*
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total Artifacts obtained: 3
Total percentage: 90%


Artifact of Wild                     /


“A Sunchamber high atop our ruined home became
the nest of a great beast, and a source of corruption.
Many Chozo Spirits have been drawn to this tainted place.
Release their bond to the world to claim the Artifact
of Wild.”

This clue's not as clear as the others, but you can still guess that it's
talking of the Chozo Ruins. Although, this one clearly states the name of the
room you should go to. So, head there. But, not the original way, because that
way is blocked. Instead, head to the Magmoor transport. Once there, take the
left door. You should come to a Sun Tower. Get rid of the War Wasps, then use
Missiles to destroy their hives so that they won't harass you anymore. Now,
scan the Chozo Lore here. (Last one, yay!) Now, there should be a plate of
Cordite on both sides of the room. Blast them both with Super Missiles, and
scan the runic symbols behind them. Now, turn on your Thermal Visor. Look all
around the four columns here for the last two runic symbols.

Once they're all activated, the rest of the Spider Ball track should be
revealed. Climb up them, being careful of the Oculus's, and head through the
door at the top. As soon as you do enter, a Chozo Ghost will see you, and
vanish through a wall...... Just keep moving, and into the Sunchamber. A number
of Chozo Ghosts will appear. Take them all out, using your X-Ray Visor to see
them. Once they're all defeated, the Artifact of Wild will appear where
Flaaghra was planted. I know you hate to stand in a previously dangerous spot,
but please do so you can grab this Artifact. Now, let's see what the next hint
will give us.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 1

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0*

Chozo Lore: 1*

Research: 0*

Artifacts: 0

Total scans obtained: 134
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 4*
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total Artifacts obtained: 4
Total percentage: 91%


Artifact of Lifegiver                /


“There is a tower in the Ruins where Light always shines.
Move through the waters there to find the Artifact of
Lifegiver.”

Well, this is obvious. Head to the Tower of Light, since “Light” is
capitalized. Once there, drop into the water, move through the tunnel, and head
through the door once you emerge and grab the Artifact of Lifegiver. This one
was pretty self-explanatory, actually. Head all the way back to the Artifact
Temple in the Tallon Overworld. Walk to the center of the platform. A new
Artifact clue should be scannable! Grab it, and view the clue for the next one.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 1

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0*

Chozo Lore: 0*

Research: 0*

Artifacts: 1
Warrior

Total scans obtained: 135
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 4*
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total Artifacts obtained: 5
Total percentage: 92%


Artifact of Warrior                  /


“A room of Research lies within the mines.
A corrupted invader is trapped there.
Defeat this creature to claim the Artifact of Warrior.”

A room of Research in the mines...Phazon Mines! Head to the Elite Research room
in the Phazon Mines, and you'll see an Elite Pirate in stasis. Blow open the
pod with a Power Bomb and he'll break out. This poor guy looks as if he's been
exposed to high levels of Phazon recently. Scan him first, then beat him like
any other Elite Pirate. (Except I think he's stronger.) When he's gone,
claim the Artifact of Warrior. It might be a good idea to save somewhere now.
Alright, let's look at the next clue.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 1

Creatures: 1
Phazon Elite Pirate

Pirate Logs: 0*

Chozo Lore: 0*

Pirate Logs: 0*

Artifacts: 0

Total scans obtained: 136
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 4*
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total Artifacts obtained: 6
Total percentage: 93%


Artifact of Chozo                    /


“In one of Tallon's far corners, a Grove of life lies.
Reveal the pillar beneath the waves to find the
Artifact of Chozo.”

You heard the clue, get your butt over to the Life Grove, where you got your
X-Ray Visor. Once there, head into the water and blow away the metal blockage
with a Bomb. (It should have some sort of a symbol on it.) A pillar should rise
and reveal a Spinner. Use it to reveal a small nook where the Artifact of Chozo
is held. Grab it, then head back to the Artifact Temple. Stand at the center
of the platform, and two more Artifact clues will be scannable! Get them, then
read the next clue.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 2

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0*

Chozo Lore: 0*

Research: 0*

Artifacts: 2
Nature
Sun

Total scans obtained: 138
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 4*
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total Artifacts obtained: 7
Total percentage: 94%


Artifact of Nature                   /


“A molten Lake lies within the tunnels of Magmoor.
Shatter the column at the lake's center to reveal the
Artifact of Nature.”

Alright, head into Magmoor Caverns, and into a room that has “Lake” in the
name. If you can't find it, it's the Lava Lake room. Once there, turn on your
X-Ray Visor. If the column you're looking at is solid, then head into the other
part of the room. Once you find the hollow one, blast it with a Super Missile
to reveal the Artifact. Now, let's look at the next clue......

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 0

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0*

Chozo Lore: 0*

Research: 0*

Artifacts: 0

Total scans obtained: 138
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 4*
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total Artifacts obtained: 8
Total percentage: 95%


Artifact of Sun                      /


“Near Phendrana's shores, a Temple stands.
Thaw the frozen waters flowing from the Elder
to find the Artifact of Sun.”

Alright, head to Phendrana Shores in the Drifts, and enter the Chozo Temple.
Remember that statue at the top of the Temple that had its hands frozen? Head
to the statue and melt the ice. (Plasma Beam) Once you do that, Morph into a
ball on the statue's hands, and a tunnel will open up. Head through and collect
the Artifact of Sun. Now, let's look at the next clue.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 0

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0*

Chozo Lore: 0*

Research: 0*

Artifacts: 0

Total scans obtained: 138
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 4*
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total Artifacts obtained: 9
Total percentage: 96%


Artifact of World                    /


“Within the ruins of our home, we honor out fallen Elders
in a great Hall. A chamber beneath the statue holds the
Artifact of World.”

Alright, if you didn't know already, head to the Hall of the Elders in the
Chozo Ruins. Once there, defeat the Chozo Ghosts, and head up to the
color-coded Slots. Shoot the red one with your Plasma Beam to open it, and
plant a Bomb in the Slot. The statue will move, revealing a chamber. Within
lies the Artifact. Read the next clue....

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 0

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0*

Chozo Lore: 0*

Research: 0*

Artifacts: 0

Total scans obtained: 138
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 4*
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total Artifacts obtained: 10
Total percentage: 97%


Artifact of Spirit                   /


“A tall cave stands at Phendrana's Edge. Seek the unseen
entrance at its top to find the Artifact of Spirit.”

Basically, just head to Phendrana's Edge. Once there, start climbing to the
top. Now, turn on your X-Ray Visor, and slowly descend down the ledges. You
should see one ledge that has a transparent wall. Power Bomb it to reveal the
holding place of the Artifact of Spirit. Now, head back to the Artifact Temple,
and when you stand at the center of the platform, one last clue should be
available! Scan it, then read the clue.....

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 1

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0*

Chozo Lore: 0*

Research: 0*

Artifacts: 1*
Newborn

Total scans obtained: 139
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 4*
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total Artifacts obtained: 11
Total percentage: 98%


Artifact of Newborn                  /


“Invaders mine the depths in their greed.
Forge a tunnel of the Great Poison to claim
the Artifact of Newborn.”

Yep, we'll have to head back to the Phazon Mines, but in the deep area, into
the Phazon Mining Tunnel. Once you get to the bottom of the maze, where the
Phazon is. Keep bombing the rocks to “forge a path.” At the end, you'll get the
Artifact of Newborn. Hooray! Now we have all 12 Artifacts! Now, head back to
the Artifact Temple, and stand in the center of the platform. All of the Chozo
Totems will glow, and the central Totem will reveal a mystic light, to allow
access to the Impact Crater....but something is definitely going wrong.....

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 0

Creatures: 0

Pirate Logs: 0*

Chozo Lore: 0*

Research: 0*

Artifacts: 0*

Total scans obtained: 139
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 4*
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total Artifacts obtained: 12*
Total percentage: 100%


Final Surprise                       /


An object will appear over the horizon, and it's heading towards the Temple at
a high speed...it's Meta Ridley! He flies right into the center column,
destroying it, thus canceling the Crater access. Then, he'll face Samus, ready
to fight.....

---------------------
BOSS: Meta Ridley

To me, this boss battle is the coolest of the game, as it plays a remix of the
Super Metroid Ridley battle. W00t!! Scan this guy first. Now, this boss has a
number of aerial attacks. He has a Pulse Beam that he shoots from his mouth, he
also fires Missiles from his back. He can also fly by at a high speed and drop
bombs, which are hard to avoid. After hitting him a few times, he'll start
doing another attack, flying right over the platform, and performing a
crash-landing. Don't be in close vicinity to him or you'll get damaged by the
attack. When he lands, he'll roar, then take off and fly under the platform,
then he'll reappear again. Now, for the offensive. Basically, just shoot your
Plasma Beam at his chest. That's all you have to do. Anyway, keep dodging his
attacks and damaging him, and when he's down to one-fourth energy left, his
wings will burn off, and he will land, thus signalling the second part of the
battle, and he will reveal his attacking prowess on the ground....

He now basically just starts to ram you. Frequently dash to the side to avoid
it. After he does a few rams, he will stop, and open his mouth to roar. When he
does that, shoot a Missile at his mouth. He will open up the inner part of his
chest. Use the Rapid-Fire Missiles trick and start shooting at that part. His
chest will eventually close up, and will start the ramming again. Keep doing
this process until he's about a sliver left of health left, in which his rams
will be faster and more frequent. It is harder to avoid his rams now, so try as
hard as you can. Once you get another chance, a few more Missiles should cause
him extreme pain. The battle will end, and the statues of the Temple will glow,
and will fire lasers right at Ridley's chest, and he'll back up, and fall off
the edge, his robotic-self will be destroyed at impact.
---------------------

Samus will look down at where Meta Ridley fell, and will turn around to see
Chozo Ghosts filling the spots where the destroyed totems laid. They'll gather
up their power, and will create a portal. Step inside to be whisked off....

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 1

Creatures: 1
Meta-Ridley

Pirate Logs: 0*

Chozo Lore: 0*

Research: 0*

Artifacts: 0*

Total scans obtained: 140
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 4*
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total Artifacts obtained: 12*
Total percentage: 100%


Final Bout                           /


You'll now arrive at the Impact Crater. There will be a Save Point to your
left, so use it. Now, head into the next room to find.....red Phazon. Avoid
this stuff, because it's actually too powerful for your Phazon Suit. Across the
room is a swarm of Lumigeks, Parasites that live in and around Phazon. Scan one
before the swarm leaves. Head into the next room after a couple of red Phazon
pools, and you'll get to a HUGE, tall room with a large pillar in the center.
Around here, you'll encounter Fission Metroids, Metroids that have been exposed
to powerful Phazon 24/7. Scan one of these guys, then proceed to kill them with
charged Plasma shots, as these have an immunity to cold. But, when you damage
it enough, it'll split up into two other Fission Metroids! The two that it
splits up into both are vulnerable to only one type of Beam. As an example,
when a Fission Metroid splits up, say the first Metroid is yellow, and the
other one is white. Use your Power Beam to get rid of the yellow Fission
Metroid, and use the Ice Beam to destroy the white Fission Metroid. Just like
the color-coded Space Pirates.

It's better to start climbing than fighting them, because practically every
time you deal with a Fission Metroid, another one will show up, so just start
climbing. (or you can use Power Bombs to blow them up if they get too close)
Make sure you grab a scan for these Fissions, though. Around halfway up, you'll
encounter a Missile Station. Use it, because you need your Missiles for the
final boss. Anyway, keep climbing, and you'll get to the top. Head through the
door here and head through the series of Spider Ball tracks to reach the end.
The next room has...the enemy you've been searching for in the game.....Metroid
Prime. It right now looks like a mechanical scorpion of sorts, due to all the
Space Pirate technology it assimilated. (See one of the Pirate Logs for more
info.)

---------------------
FINAL BOSS: Metroid Prime

As soon as the battle starts, Prime will break through the wall behind him to
head to a new area. He's not a coward, he just wants a wide-open room so he can
test all his weaponry on Samus. Just follow him, and Samus will do her classic
spinning jump, and land in the room below. Now, scan this ugly creature. Now,
like Meta-Ridley, this boss has a number of attacks. One is his Missile
barrage. Just double side dash to avoid that. He also slams the ground with his
forelegs and creates a line of ice. Dash or jump over to avoid. He also has a
breath attack, he also has a tractor beam, (which he'll use as a last resort
when his health is low) use the Boost Ball to escape that. He can also fire
poison bombs, which when they explode, will send out poisonous gas in a wide
radius. Also, when you're too close to him, he'll use melee attacks. Now moving
on to the really deadly attacks. He can also ram you. Back up real far to avoid
this, or, if applicable, Morph into a ball and hide in one of the ditches.

When he passes over you, he'll create tremors, which may throw you out of the
ditch, so be careful. He also shoots energy balls. Concentrate on these when he
fires them, as if they touch you, they'll explode and will cause Samus to lose
her Visor sight, and you can't fire at all, for a few seconds. Plus, they do
high damage, so take them out. The type of energy balls he creates varies,
depending on what color he is, and I'll explain it in a minute. Also, watch for
Prime when dealing with the energy balls, as he might do an attack if you're
not looking. If so, dodge it any way you can. His last attack his firing a beam
from his mouth. Again, the effects of the beam vary depending on his color. If
he's yellow, you'll just take a lot of damage. If he's purple, your Visor will
malfunction, but you'll still be able to see. If he's white, you'll freeze, in
which the same thing will happen if a white energy ball touches you. If he's
red, you'll catch on fire for a few seconds and get your energy drained really
quickly.

Now, for an offensive. Just shoot at his eyes, but, his color will decide which
beam you have to use, so it's the same as the Fission Metroids and/or the
color-coded Space Pirates in the Mines. When he's yellow, find an appropriate
firing time, and shoot Super Missiles at him. When he's purple, use your Wave
Buster. When he's white, use your Ice Spreader. When he's red, just use your
Plasma Beam, as the Flamethrower in this battle is useless. He has to be
practically right over you for it to work right. When he's taken enough damage,
he'll flash red and get knocked back, so if your using the Wave Buster, stop
when he gets knocked back. Keep draining his energy as both of you descend
deeper and deeper, until he's finally faster than before, when he has more than
a sliver of health left.

Also, when he gets knocked back, he'll do a charge, so be ready to hide in the
ditch whenever you knock him back. When his health is low, he'll use his ram
without getting knocked back, so beware. Anyway, when his health is fully
depleted, he'll stagger onto a wall, break it open, and fall down the hole.
Walk over to the open wall, and Samus will look down, and see an abyss.....O_O
She'll take a long drop, and land in a room. Metroid Prime will emerge from his
mechanical coverings and reveal his true self, thus starting the second phase
of the battle. Scan him again, and you should get a message saying you have
collected 100% scans! Stop the dancing around, we've got a boss to finish up.

OK, now, he's invulnerable to all of your Beam weaponry, so just lock-on to him
to keep an eye on him. He'll send out numerous energy waves, just jump over
them. Easy. Soon, he'll create a puddle of pure Phazon, and will disappear.
Step into the puddle, and your Arm Cannon will be supercharged, capable of
shooting streams of Phazon. Switch to your X-Ray Visor to see Prime, and let
him have it with a stream of Phazon until you've drained all the Phazon from
the puddle.

Keep jumping over his energy waves, and when he creates another puddle of
Phazon, he'll also create a couple of Metroids. Just step into the puddle and
shoot Phazon at the Metroids to kill them with one shot. Now, switch to your
Thermal Visor to see him now. Let him have it with another stream of Phazon,
and he should have around half-health by the time you're finished. By now, when
he should create Hunter Metroids. Just kill them with the Phazon Beam. (That's
when you can shoot Phazon.) Hit him again, (he should be visible in normal
sight, now) he should have a quarter of his health left, in which he'll create
Fission Metroids. If you do get caught in one of them, a Power Bomb should kill
them all. Anyway, when you get the chance to hit him again switch back to your
X-Ray Visor and get him. Keep going until its health is fully depleted.
---------------------

Prime will form into a spiky membrane, (no, I do not believe it's an X Parasite
Core) and will grab onto Samus with one of his spikes. After a hard struggle,
Prime will take her Phazon Suit, and some of her DNA. He then will start to
explode, and Samus will escape back to the Artifact Temple. The temple will
start blowing up, so she calls her gunship, and she leaps off just when the
ledge explodes. Her ship will catch her in the nick of time. She'll then take
her helmet off, looking over the Temple with a look of concern, then will close
her eyes as if in disgust. (It's actually hard to describe.) She will then fly
off, with the Credits rolling.

When the Credits are over, you will see Samus's Gunship taking off at warp
speed once escaping the planet's atmosphere. You'll see the Congratulations
screen, showing your item %age and completion time. If you have 100% ITEMS,
then another cutscene will show up, showing a big bubbling pool of Phazon in
the room where you just fought Prime's second form. The camera will close in,
and a black hand with an eye on the back will break free of the pool. The hand
will open its eye, and with an ominous roar, the cutscene fades and gets you to
a Save prompt. Do so, and that's the end.

-------------------------
Number of scans obtained: 4

Creatures: 4*
Lumigeks
Fission Metroid
Metroid Prime (1)
Metroid Prime (2)

Pirate Logs: 0*

Chozo Lore: 0*

Research: 0*

Artifacts: 0*

Total scans obtained: 144*
-------------------------

Total Missile Expansions obtained: 49*
Total Energy Tanks obtained: 14*
Total Power Bomb Expansions obtained: 4*
Total Suit upgrades obtained: 21*
Total Artifacts obtained: 12*
Total percentage: 100%
