---
title: DRAGONLORD'S CASTLE
order: 4
---




Once you feel like you are ready to take on the Dragonlord, Zoom to Tantegel,
rest at the Inn, max out on your Medicinal Herbs and Magic Keys and save with
the King. There is no saving after beating the Dragonlord. Make a pit stop in
Rimuldar if you'd like.

Head towards the Dragonlord's Castle. As you go through the Castle a second
time, try to conserve as much MP as possible, and feel free to use all of your
Herbs if need be.

Go to the Throne room, search the sparkle and go down the stairs.



**Floor B1**



Use a Magic Key on the door and follow the linear path west, south, then east.
Take the northeast path to the stairs.



**Floor B2**



From the stairs, head west and follow the path. Take the north path at the
intersection. When you come to two paths heading south, take the western path
south to some stairs.



**Floor B3**



Go northeast, ignore the first stairs, head west and go down the second stairs.



**Floor B4**



Now you are back on the floor where you saw the two flights of stairs, where the
ascending stairs lead to Erdrick's Sword and the descending stairs lead to an
endless loop. Ignore both stairs and head east, then north to more descending
stairs.



**Floor B5**



You can encounter the final two monsters (besides the Dragonlord himself) on
this floor as well as the two final floors just below. Knight Abhorrents can
cast Midheal and Sizzle. Red Dragons can cast Fizzle, so make sure you keep your
HP high. Follow the path to the end to go down another flight of stairs.



**Floor B6**



On this floor, simply walk straight east and down the stairs to the final floor.



**Floor B7**



Walk straight north and head to the treasure room. The chests contain WASTEBAND
(cursed), SEED OF MAGIC, MEDICINAL HERB, 424G, nothing, MAGIC KEY, nothing,
503G, and a CHIMAERA WING. If you want to keep your MP stat gain, Evac out and
Zoom to Tantegel Castle to rest and save. However, you will have to redo the
Dragonlord's Castle and get to the bottom floor again.

From the stairs on the final floor, take the leftmost path, turning east and
moving past the pillars. Continue east, then head south across two bridges. You
should be able to see the Dragonlord now. Heal up to full using any leftover
Herbs you may have left. Make a Quick Save.



